title:Archmage Path Abilities
parent:mythic-rules
[[toc]]

The following are new path abilities that can be taken by mythic characters who follow the path of the Archmage.

----

++ ##000000|1st-Tier Archmage Abilities##

++++ Alchemical Archmagery (Ex)
You treat extracts as if they were spells for the purpose of mythic feats, path abilities, and all other effects. You may also select a number of mythic alchemical extracts equal to your tier and can expend mythic power when using them to enhance the results. This ability otherwise functions as the mythic spellcasting universal path ability in Chapter 1 of Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures.

++++ Alien Alchemy (Su)
You have learned alien and unearthly alchemical secrets which make your alchemical substances more effective against creatures with the mythos subtype. Such creatures take a -2 penalty to saves against alchemical items (including alchemist bombs) that you wield, and you increase damage against such creatures by 1 point per die (or by 1 point for splash damage). In addition, you may expend one use of your mythic power as a swift action when attacking with alchemical items (including alchemist bombs) in order to bypass non-mythic energy resistance or immunity with such items for 1 minute.

At the GM’s discretion, studying alien alchemy also grants you knowledge of strange alien formulae for alchemical items that are not generally known to others.

++++ Arcane Naturalist (Sp)
You gain the ability to use detect animals or plants at will as a spell-like ability, save that when you activate this ability you may expend one use of your mythic power in order to specify any one type or subtype of creatures to be detected. Thereafter, you may continue using that detection as often as desired; mythic power must be spent only when changing the type or subtype you wish to detect. You gain an insight bonus on Knowledge checks made to identify creatures of the type and/or subtype you are able to detect.

++++ Cackling Chorus (Su)
If you expend one use of your mythic power when you use your cackle hex, you can cause your cackle to erupt simultaneously from yourself, your familiar, and (if you have the cauldron hex) your cauldron, plus one additional creature or object for every 3 mythic tiers. Objects you wish to affect (other than your cauldron) must depict a face or head (though it need not be humanoid) or must have a reflective surface in which your face appears when you cause the object to cackle.

Creatures within 30 feet of you or any creatures or objects you designate are affected by your cackle hex and also take a penalty equal to one-third your mythic tier on saving throws against emotion, fear, or language-dependent effects you create until the beginning of your next turn.

All creatures or objects you wish to be part of the cackling chorus must be within 20 feet plus 10 feet per mythic tier of you. Unwilling creatures can attempt a Will save to resist; if they fail, they must spend a move action cackling on their next turn. Magical or attended objects are also entitled to a Will save to negate the effect.

**Elder Signs (Su):** You have learned the four secret signs for dealing with alien things from beyond. The elder signs may be passes made with the hand and fingers or may be engraved onto solid surfaces in the form and path of the great sign. Performing one of the elder signs requires a move action and can be done as often as desired; their effects last until the end of your turn. The four elder signs are as follows:

* //The Sign of Revealing (Vuur):// Made with forefinger and small finger extended and the other fingers flexed to touch the palm, the sign of revealing allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to caster level checks and Knowledge or Spellcraft checks made when using divinations to learn about creatures, objects, or effects related to the mythos, including spells and creatures with the mythos subtype. You may also add one-half your mythic tier to caster level checks to dispel illusions created by a mythos creature or a divine spellcaster that worships a mythos deity. If you make the sign of revealing when attacking a mythos creature with concealment or a creature that has concealment due to a mythos effect, you may roll twice and select the better result when attempting to overcome the target’s miss chance due to concealment.

* //The Sign of Opening (Kesh):// Made with the thumb and middle finger extended and the other fingers flexed to the palm, the sign of opening allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to your caster level when casting a calling, summoning, or teleportation effect that brings a creature with the mythos subtype or that facilitates travel to a location connected to the mythos.

* //The Sign of Sealing (Qoth):// Made with four fingers extended and the thumb bent at an angle across the palm, the sign of sealing allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to your caster level when creating an effect that blocks teleportation, summoning, and extradimensional travel or when engraving a magical glyph or symbol upon a stone object at least 5 feet square. You add your mythic tier to the hardness and break DC of the stone object upon which the sign is engraved, though these increases apply only against attacks by creatures with the mythos subtype or spells with the mythos descriptor.

* //The Sign of Banishment (Ylld):// Made with three fingers extended and the thumb and small finger joined across the palm, the sign of banishment allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to your caster level when creating an effect that would banish, dismiss, dispel, or teleport away any creature with the mythos subtype or to dispel or remove any effect that it has created. When you make the sign of banishment, creatures with the mythos subtype take a -2 penalty to saves against the effects listed above, as well as fear effects you create.

++++ Explosive Alchemy (Su)
If you expend one use of mythic power, any bombs or alchemical splash weapons you use for a number of rounds equal to your tier explode with greater effect, increasing the radius of your splash damage by 5 feet, plus 5 feet per 5 mythic tiers. Add your mythic tier to the damage dealt by a direct hit and one-half your tier to the splash damage dealt by your bomb or splash weapon.

++++ Powerful Spell Maneuver (Su)
Whenever you use a spell, spell-like ability, or spell effect created by a magic item to attempt a combat maneuver against a single creature, you add a bonus on your combat maneuver check equal to one-half your mythic tier. If you expend a mythic surge as part of this combat maneuver, you may roll your surge die twice and select the better result. If the effect you create affects multiple creatures or all creatures in an area with a combat maneuver, such as hydraulic torrent^^APG^^, you must expend one use of mythic power to use this path ability.

++++ Purging Alchemy (Su)
You can use Craft (alchemy) checks in place of Heal checks to treat diseases or poisons. You also can create alchemical remedies (as described in the Gear chapter of Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Equipment) in 1/10 the normal amount of time, and you may manufacture a number of doses of the same alchemical remedy simultaneously equal to your mythic tier. Finally, you may select a number of conjuration (healing) spells or extracts equal to your mythic tier and can expend mythic power when using them to enhance the results. To select a mythic spell or extract, you must be able to cast the non-mythic version or have it on your list of spells or extracts known. Every time you gain a new tier, you can select an additional conjuration (healing) spell or extract.

++++ Repeating Arcana (Su)
You can expend one use of mythic power or 1 point from your arcane pool when activating a magus arcana to repeat the arcana’s effect on your next turn. This extends the duration of any magus arcana by 1 round; effects that normally last until the end of your turn instead last until the end of your next turn. If the arcana allows you to modify a spell, such as Quickened Magic or Silent Magic, you can choose a different spell to modify when the arcana repeats; if you do not cast a spell on your next turn, the effect is wasted.

++++ Spell Dilation (Ex)
When casting a spell that affects an area, you can increase or decrease the spell’s radius, length, height, or width by 5 feet, plus 5 feet for every 5 mythic tiers you possess. You cannot use this ability to reduce any dimension of a spell’s area below 5 feet, nor to increase any dimension by more than 50%. If you use this ability in conjunction with the Widen Spell metamagic feat, apply the effects of that feat before you apply the effects of this path ability.

----

++ ##000000|3rd-Tier Archmage Abilities##

++++ Battlemagic Sense (Su)
You have an intuitive sense for friendly and hostile magics being thrown around a battlefield. You gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on Spellcraft checks to identify spells, including both ongoing spell effects and spells as they are being cast, and you may make such checks untrained. If you expend one use of your mythic power as a swift or immediate action, you can treat your base attack bonus as the number of ranks you have in the Spellcraft skill for 1 minute.

You are automatically aware when a spell with a range greater than personal or touch is cast within 20 feet plus 10 feet times your mythic tier, and you can make a Spellcraft to identify such spells, though you take a -4 penalty on your check if you have no line of sight to the caster or are otherwise unaware of the caster’s presence. If you successfully identify a spell while forcing the caster to make a concentration check, whether to cast defensively because you threaten the target or by harming or distracting the caster in any way, you add your mythic tier to the DC of the concentration check for that spell.

If you successfully identify a spell being cast and you have the ability to cast an appropriate counterspell (including dispel magic), you can expend one use of your mythic power to perform that counterspell as an immediate action, even if you do not have line of sight to the caster. If you have readied an action to counterspell, you gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on any caster level check required.

++++ Blighted Alchemy (Su)
You learn a number of minor spellblights (as described in Chapter 2 of Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Magic) equal to one-half your mythic tier. You gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier on saving throws to avoid acquiring those spellblights or on caster level checks to remove those spellblights. You add remove curse to your list of extracts known, and you can expend mythic power to enhance the results as if you knew the mythic version of remove curse as described in Mythic Magic: Core Spells from Legendary Games.

Whenever you successfully confirm a critical hit with or a target rolls a natural 1 on their save against an alchemical weapon, alchemist bomb, or alchemist extract that you use, the target must succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your number of ranks in Craft (alchemy) + your Intelligence modifier + your mythic tier) or contract one of the minor spellblights you know.

++++ Bloodline Transfusion (Su)
If you have a sorcerer bloodline, you can expend one use of mythic power to infuse your enchanted blood into another creature, and temporarily granting it the Eldritch Heritage feat for your bloodline. If you spend one round giving the transfusion, its effects last for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier. If you increase the transfusion time to 1 minute, you likewise increase the duration to one minute per tier. You cannot grant the target a bloodline that it already possesses or that you do not possess.

If you are at least 6th tier, you can expend two uses of mythic power to grant the target Improved Eldritch Heritage. If you are at least 9th tier, you can expend three uses of mythic power to grant the target Greater Eldritch Heritage. Eldritch Heritage feats are described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Magic.

++++ Dirty Bombs (Su)
Your base bomb damage die is increased by d8’s instead of d6’s. In addition, if you expend one use of mythic power while using a bomb to attack, its damage dice are increased to d10s and they ignore energy resistance or immunity.

++++ Eldritch Dread (Su)
When you cast a spell or use a spell-like ability, you may expend one use of your mythic power to activate an aura of fear affecting all creatures within a radius of 5 feet plus 5 feet per level of the spell that lasts until the beginning of your next turn. Each round, you may continue exuding this aura of fear by spending a move action to do so, up to a maximum number of rounds equal to your mythic tier.

If you do not maintain the aura during any round, you cannot resume it unless you cast another spell and expend another use of your mythic power. Enemies within the aura are shaken (or panicked if they have fewer Hit Dice than your mythic tier) as long as they remain within this radius and for a number of rounds thereafter equal to your mythic tier. A Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your Hit Dice + your mythic tier) negates the effects of this aura.

++++ Multimorph (Su)
You may select a number of transmutation (polymorph) spells or extracts equal to your mythic tier and can expend mythic power when using them to enhance the results. To select a mythic spell or extract, you must be able to cast the non-mythic version or have it on your list of spells or extracts known. Every time you gain a new tier, you can select an additional transmutation (polymorph) spell or extract.

If you are affected by a polymorph effect whose spell level is lower than your mythic tier (regardless of whether you originally cast the spell), you can use a swift action or move action to shift into a different form allowed by the spell. If you expend one use of your mythic power, you can expend 1 minute of the spell’s duration as a full-round action to alter the polymorph effect to a different polymorph spell or extract that you know (though you need not have it prepared) of the same or lower level, taking on a new form allowed by that spell.

If you are using a mythic polymorph spell and shift into a form that requires a spell for which you also know the mythic version, you exchange the mythic version of the original spell for the mythic version of the new spell. If you do not know the mythic version of the spell required for the new form you wish to assume, the mythic benefit of your original polymorph spell is forfeited.

If you use a mutagen or cognatogen, as a swift action you can change the ability scores it modifies to a different set of valid ability scores for your mutagen or cognatogen. Hence, an alchemist could switch from gaining a bonus on Strength and a penalty on Intelligence to a bonus on Dexterity and a penalty on Wisdom but could not choose to switch to a bonus on Dexterity and a penalty on Charisma, as that is not a valid option for the alchemist’s mutagen.

You must have the shifting mastery path ability, as described in Chapter 1 of Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures, to select this ability.

++++ Oozechemist (Su)
You gain the bottled ooze alchemist discovery, and you can create an ooze by expending a spell or alchemical extract whose level is equal to the ooze’s CR. In addition, if you expend one use of mythic power while creating a bottled ooze, you can create a mythic ooze, either applying the savage template as described in the Mythic Monster Advancement section of chapter 6 of Pathfinde Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures or using one of the mythic oozes described Mythic Monsters: Oozes or Mythic Monsters: Oozes Too from Legendary Games. Note that applying the savage template increases an ooze’s CR, which increases the level of spell or extract that must be used to bottle it.

If you already have the bottled ooze discovery, you can spend one or more uses of mythic power when using that discovery.

Each use of mythic power you expend reduces the level of extract that you must expend to bottle an ooze by two. This allows you to bottle oozes with a CR that exceeds the highest- level extract you can use, provided you reduce its effective CR to be equal to or less than the highest level of extracts you can use.

++++ Wallbuilder (Su)
When you cast a spell that creates a wall effect, you may add your mythic tier to your caster level to determine the wall’s thickness and the size of the wall’s effect, as well as the caster level check to dispel the wall if it is not an instantaneous creation. If the wall is solid, you also add your mythic tier to its hardness and break DC. If the wall deals damage, you add your mythic tier to that damage. As a standard action, you may expend one use of mythic power to relocate the wall from its current location to another valid location within range.

----

++ ##000000|6th-Tier Archmage Abilities##

++++ Arcanist’s Escape (Su)
Whenever you are entangled, grappled, or pinned, you may expend two uses of mythic power as a free action on your turn to teleport to safety, as if using dimension door. If you are affected by a non-mythic effect that blocks teleportation, such as forbiddance, dimensional anchor, or antimagic field, you can double the cost to four uses of mythic power to make a caster level check with a bonus equal to your mythic tier to bypass that effect for the purpose of this teleportation. The DC for this check is equal to 15 plus the caster level of that effect. This ability can be used to escape from an effect or area that blocks teleportation, but it cannot be used to enter such an area from outside it.

++++ Extended Abundant Casting (Ex)
When you cast a spell that normally affects only a single target (such as “one creature”), you can affect one additional target adjacent to that target without expending additional mythic power to do so. In addition, you can affect an additional number of targets anywhere within range equal to one-half your mythic tier by expending one use of mythic power for each additional target. You cannot target the same creature more than once with a spell. If the spell requires you to succeed at a melee touch attack, you must hold the charge in order to make touch attacks against targets after the first. You must have the abundant casting path ability in order to select this ability.

++++ Greater Blighted Alchemy (Su)
You learn a number of minor or major spellblights (as described in Chapter 2 of Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Magic) equal to one-half your mythic tier, with which you gain the benefits listed for blighted alchemy. Whenever you successfully confirm a critical hit with, or a target rolls a natural 1 on their save against, an alchemical weapon, alchemist bomb, or alchemist extract that you use, the target must succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your number of ranks in Craft (alchemy) + your Intelligence modifier + your mythic tier) or contract one major or two minor spellblights you know. You must have the blighted alchemy path ability to select this ability.

++++ Mindthrall (Su)
When a creature fails its saving throw against a charm effect or harmful compulsion effect you create, you can expend one or more uses of mythic power to make the effect permanent. You must expend one use of mythic power, plus one additional use per two levels of the spell. If the effect’s normal duration is less than 1 day/level, you must spend additional mythic power to make the effect permanent, depending on the effect’s normal duration:

||~ Normal Duration ||~ Additional MP Cost || 
|| 1 hour/level || +1 MP || 
|| 10 minutes/level || +2 MP || 
|| 1 minute/level || +4 MP || 
|| 1 round/level || +6 MP ||
