title:Champion Path Abilities
[[toc]]

The following are new path abilities that can be chosen by mythic heroes following the path of the Champion.

----

++ ##000000|1st-Tier Abilities##

++++ Ancestral Arms (Su)
You receive a masterwork weapon, shield, or suit of armor as an inheritance. You may discover this disused relic among a collection of junk or be gifted it by someone who knows its history, but you immediately feel a deep connection with it. As long as you are wearing or wielding it, add your mythic tier to the item’s hardness and saving throws. If you expend one use of your mythic power, the item gains temporary hit points equal to twice your mythic tier that last for 24 hours.

You can enchant the weapon, armor, or shield as if you are a spellcaster with the Craft Magic Arms and Armor feat whose level is equal to your character level plus your mythic tier. You can use Craft in place of Spellcraft when enchanting the item, and you add your mythic tier to all skill checks involved in crafting the item. If the item is damaged or destroyed, you can expend one use of your mythic power as a full-round action to repair a number of hit points equal to twice your mythic tier. If you are at least 3rd mythic tier, you can alter the material of which your item is made, paying the difference in cost and taking time as if it were a magical enhancement. You may also enchant your ancestral arms as if you had the Mythic Crafter feat. You can select this ability more than once, gaining a different item each time.

++++ Analytical Eye
When a creature you can see makes an attack, you can spend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to analyze its fighting style and capabilities. You learn all combat feats (including mythic versions of combat feats) that creature possesses, even if it did not use some of those feats in its attack. You gain an insight bonus equal to one-half your tier (minimum +1) to AC against that opponent until the end of your next turn. If you use the aid another action, your ally adds this insight bonus to the bonus they gain to their AC or on their next attack roll against that opponent.

++++ Mythic Challenge (Ex)
As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to regain one use of your challenge ability. Until the beginning of your next turn, attacks you make against a challenged creature bypass all damage reduction and any creatures you threaten take a ─2 penalty to their Armor Class against your attacks. You must have the challenge class feature to select this ability.

++++ Mythic Flair (Su)
As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to regain 2 points of grit or panache (up to your maximum). For the rest of your turn, any attacks you make with one-handed or light piercing weapons or firearms bypass all damage reduction. You must have the grit or panache class feature to select this ability.

++++ Mythic Pool (Su)
As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to regain 2 points in your arcane pool (up to your maximum). For the rest of your turn, you add your mythic tier on concentration checks and caster level checks with magus spells you cast. If you make a spellstrike attack before the end of your turn, the weapon damage from that attack bypasses all damage reduction. You must have the arcane pool class feature to select this ability.

++++ Mythic Resolve (Ex)
As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to regain one use of your resolve ability. Until the beginning of your next turn, activating your resolve is a free action, and you may spend multiple uses of resolve as free actions during that time. You must have the resolve class feature to select this ability.

++++ Smashmouth (Ex)
By spending one use of your mythic power when you hit with an attack that deals bludgeoning damage, you injure one of the target’s natural weapons for 1 minute, causing it to take a -2 penalty on attack and damage rolls with that natural weapon. This penalty increases by 1 for every 3 mythic tiers you possess. If you injure the target’s mouth, the target’s ability to speak is impaired and it has a 20% chance of failure when casting spells with a verbal component or activating a spell-completion or spell-trigger item or item that is activated with a command word. This chance is increased by 10% for every 3 mythic tiers you possess, and the failure chance is doubled for language-dependent effects. Abilities that grant the target immunity to (or a percentage chance to ignore) critical hits apply against this ability.

++++ Swift Swap (Ex)
As a free action, you can sheathe or stow a weapon or shield and draw a different weapon or shield.

++++ Take a Knee (Ex)
Whenever you would be knocked prone, you fall to your knees instead. Melee attacks against you gain a +2 bonus while ranged attacks take a -2 penalty. You can stand up from kneeling as a move or swift action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. If already on your knees, you cannot use this ability to avoid being knocked prone. If you are prone, you can move to your knees as a move action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

----

++ ##000000|3rd-Tier Abilities##

++++ Combat Feat Mastery
By spending one use of your mythic power and spending one hour practicing, you gain one bonus combat feat for which you qualify. You gain this bonus feat for 24 hours or until the next time you use this ability, whichever is less; when you use it to gain a new bonus combat feat, that feat replaces the current one. This bonus feat cannot be used as a prerequisite for any other feat, prestige class, or other purpose. You cannot use this ability to gain a mythic combat feat.

You can take this path ability more than once. Each time you take it, you can gain practice to gain an additional bonus combat feat. Each feat you gain requires one hour of practice and the expenditure of one use of mythic power. You may use feats you gain with this path ability as prerequisites for other feats you gain with this path ability, but not as prerequisites for anything else.

At 6th tier and above, you can spend two uses of your mythic power to gain a combat feat with only one minute of practice rather than one hour.

++++ Mythic Marine (Ex)
You multiply the duration you can hold your breath times your mythic tier and you add your mythic tier on Swim checks. Water does not provide cover against your attacks, and if you are in water or underwater you can fight without penalty as if using freedom of movement. You can use any kind of ranged weapon underwater, including thrown weapons, without penalty if you are attacking targets within 10 feet plus 5 feet per mythic tier. Normal penalties for underwater ranged combat apply beyond this distance.

++++ Mythic Rider (Ex)
If any effect would make you fall from the back of your mount or cause your mount to fall or become prone, you can spend one use of your mythic power as a free action to remain mounted or for your mount to remain standing (unless your mount is killed or knocked unconscious). In addition, you can spend one use of your mythic power attuning yourself to your mount. For the next 24 hours, your mount gains the hard to kill, recuperation, and mythic saves abilities as a creature whose mythic rank was 2 lower than your mythic tier. If you have the unstoppable ability and use it on yourself while mounted, you may remove one of the listed effects from your mount at the same time; this may be a different effect from the one affecting you.

++++ Reaping the Chaff
When facing inferior opponents, you can carve through their ranks with lethal speed and precision. As a full-round action, you can move up to twice your speed, moving through the space of any creature smaller than you or whose Hit Dice do not exceed your tier as if you had the trample special attack. You deal damage to all such creatures in the path of your movement, as if you had struck them with a single melee attack with your primary weapon, including your Strength modifier (or 1-1/2 times your Strength modifier, if you are wielding a two-handed weapon) and any bonuses to damage that are always active. You may use Power Attack in conjunction with this ability, but feats or abilities that do not apply to multiple attacks or opponents per round (such as Vital Strike or a paladin’s smite evil) do not apply. Damage that applies against certain creature types applies when you use this ability to attack creatures of that type even if you also attack other kinds of creatures with this ability. No attack roll is necessary, and you cannot threaten or confirm a critical hit with this ability. Creatures in your path can make an attack of opportunity against you with a -4 penalty, or they can forgo this attack of opportunity and attempt a Reflex save for half damage (DC 10 + your base attack bonus + your mythic tier). You cannot damage a creature more than once per round with this ability, even if you move through its space more than once.

++++ Stand and Fight (Ex)
You do not provoke attacks of opportunity when standing up from prone and can stand up as a swift action. As a move action, you can stand up from prone and immediately attempt a combat maneuver to bull rush, dirty trick, disarm, reposition, overrun, or trip an adjacent creature. This maneuver does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and your target is denied its Dexterity bonus to its CMD against it.

++++ To the Victor (Su)
When you confirm a critical hit in melee against a mythic foe, you drain one use of the target’s mythic power. You may add this use of mythic power to your own, up to your maximum, or you may infuse your weapon with mythic power until the end of your next turn, increasing its enhancement bonus by an amount equal to one-half your mythic tier (maximum enhancement bonus +6) and allowing it to bypass damage reduction.

++++ Trick Rider (Ex)
Your mount gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on Acrobatics checks, and your mount can make Acrobatics checks to avoid attacks of opportunity or move through spaces occupied by enemies without reducing its speed. If you make an Acrobatics check while mounted, or as part of mounting or dismounting, you also gain this bonus. If you have the Mounted Combat feat, you can use that feat to make a Ride check and use the result in place of your mount’s CMD, Reflex save, or Acrobatics check.

In addition, by spending one use of your mythic power and spending one hour practicing, you gain one bonus feat for which you qualify, which must be Animal Affinity, Skill Focus (Ride), or a mounted combat feat, or a mythic version of one of those feats if you already have the base feat. You gain this bonus feat for 24 hours or until the next time you use this ability, whichever is less; when you use it to gain a new bonus combat feat, that feat replaces the current one. This bonus feat cannot be used as a prerequisite for any other feat, prestige class, or other purpose.

At 6th tier and above, you can spend two uses of your mythic power to gain a bonus feat with only one minute of practice rather than one hour.

++++ Two Can Play at That Game
When you learn a creature’s combat feats using the analytical eye path ability, on your next turn as a swift or move action (your choice) you can select a number of its combat feats equal to one-half your mythic tier, spending one use of mythic power per feat you select. You can now use those feats as if you possessed them for the next 24 hours, but only against the creature from whom you learned them. You cannot select a feat for which you do not meet the prerequisites, but you can use feats that you “borrow” with this ability to serve as prerequisites to other feats you borrow, such as taking both Point Blank Shot and Rapid Shot from your opponent. If your opponent knows the mythic version of a combat feat, you may borrow that feat, but it counts as two feats for the purpose of this ability. You must have the analytical eye path ability to select this path ability.

++++ Unarmed Critical (Ex)
You gain the benefit of Critical Focus with unarmed strike attacks. In addition, you can select feats for which Critical Focus is a prerequisite as bonus monk feats, treating your base attack bonus as if it were equal to your monk level plus your mythic tier and treating your monk level as if it were your fighter level for the purpose of meeting feat prerequisites. These critical feats apply only to unarmed strike attacks.

++++ Violent Vigor (Ex)
At the end of any round in which you make a melee attack against a creature with at least as many Hit Dice as your mythic tier, whether or not the attack hits, you regain hit points equal to one-half your mythic tier. If you use the charge action or full attack action to make such melee attacks, you regain hit points equal to your mythic tier. In addition, after attacking in melee you may expend one use of your mythic power as a swift action to remove the fatigued condition, reduce exhaustion to fatigue, or remove 1d4 points of ability damage or temporary penalties from one ability score.

----

++ ##000000|6th-Tier Abilities##

++++ Blood Oath (Su)
Once per day as a free action, you may declare an oath of bloody vengeance against a creature that has harmed you in the past. Against that enemy, any weapon you wield becomes a potent wounding weapon and you add your mythic tier on damage rolls and your critical multiplier is increased by 1. In addition, any weapon you wield gains the heartseeker (melee) or seeking (ranged) quality against your sworn foe, and you can detect your enemy’s presence as if you had the scent special quality, adding your mythic tier on Perception or Survival checks made to locate or track the target. If your enemy is within 60 feet and is taking bleed damage, you can automatically pinpoint its location. You take a ─1 penalty on attack rolls against all creatures other than your sworn enemy. These effects last for 7 days or until your sworn enemy is destroyed.

++++ Stunning Shockwave (Su)
As a full-round action, you can expend 2 points from your ki pool or 2 uses of your mythic power (or one use of each) to make an unarmed strike attack affect against all each creatures adjacent to you, a single creature up to 60 feet away, or all creatures in a 15-foot cone-shaped burst or a 30-foot line-shaped burst. These attacks are resolved as melee attacks using your highest attack bonus. You can expend one additional use of mythic power to use this ability as a standard action. If you have the Stunning Fist feat and expend one use of that feat when you use this ability, your Stunning Fist feat (including alternate effects from the monk stunning fist class feature and similar abilities) affects all creatures that you hit with your stunning shockwave.

++++ Violent Vitality (Ex)
At the end of any round in which you make a melee attack, you gain a bonus equal to one-half your level on saving throws against death effects and necromantic effects until the beginning of your next turn. If you use the charge action or full attack action to make melee attacks, you gain immunity to energy drain until the beginning of your next turn, and you can remove 1 temporary negative level. If you expend two uses of mythic power, you can remove 1 permanent negative level, 1d4 temporary negative levels, or 1d4 points of ability drain from one ability score. You must have the violent vigor path ability to select this ability.
