title:Feats
parent:spheres-of-power
[[toc]]

**Wiki Note:** The Handbooks for Spheres of Power have greatly expanded the number of feats available, so this wiki is now sorting them by category to make it easier to find what you're looking for. Note that a feat is not a specific //type// of feat unless it is actually tagged as such. For example, Mystic Generosity is not actually a Proxy feat and does not count as such for any purpose, but because it relates to the use of that feat chain, it's been included there.

**On Tagging:** Some feats are 'tagged' with a category, such as (Combat) or (Admixture). This tag is occasionally relevant for selecting feats or gaining additional benefits. A feat does not qualify as a tagged feat unless it actually has that tag, even if it's been sorted into the same category. For example, the Enhancing Telekinesis feat is not a (Drawback) feat, even though it's in that section and works much like the rest of them do.

----

+ New Feats

++ Admixture Feats
Admixture feats grant new ways to utilize the Admixture talent (from the [[[Destruction]]] sphere), adding abilities from other spheres to your destructive blast. All admixture feats replace the second blast talent you would normally apply, with the resulting destructive blast dealing normal blast damage in addition to the effect outlined in the feat. Any additional costs incurred by the additional effect must be paid as normal. If your caster level is different for the two spheres, the destructive blast is governed by your caster level for the relevant blast type and the additional effect is governed by your caster level for the appropriate ability.

+++ Enhancing Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Enhancement sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to have a single creature that takes damage be targeted by an Enhancement effect that you possess. If you possess the Mass Enhancement talent, you may apply the Enhancement to any targets damaged, up to your maximum targets from Mass Enhancement. This ability can only target creatures, it cannot be used to animate objects.

+++ Ghostly Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Death sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to affect one target damaged by the blast with an Ghost Strike effect you know, in place of a second blast type. If you possess the Greater Ghost Strike talent, you may pay an additional spell point to apply the Ghost Strike to all targets damaged.

+++ Illuminating Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Light sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may cause a single creature that takes damage to Glow.

+++ Mind Wrack (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Mind sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to have a single creature that takes damage be targeted by a Charm that you possess. If you possess the Group Charm talent, you may apply the Charm to all targets damaged, up to your maximum number of targets from Group Charm.

+++ Morphic Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to have a single creature that takes damage save against a hostile shapeshift. If you possess the Mass Alteration talent, you may apply the hostile shapeshift to all targets damaged, up to your maximum targets from Mass Alteration.

+++ Space-rending Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Warp sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to have a single creature that takes damage targeted by Unwilling Teleport. If you possess the Group Teleport talent, you may apply the Unwilling Teleport effect to all targets damaged, up to your maximum targets from Group Teleport.

+++ Telekinetic Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Telekinesis sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to lift a creature that takes damage as per Hostile Lift. If you possess the Divided Mind talent, you may lift any number of creatures damaged by the blast that do not exceed your lift limit. Maintaining the hostile lift requires concentration as normal.

+++ Time-thief’s Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Time sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to have a single creature that takes damage targeted by an Alter Time talent that you possess. If you possess the Group Time talent, you may apply the Alter Time effect to all targets damaged, up to your maximum targets from Group Time.

+++ Umbral Admixture (Admixture)

Prerequisites: Dark sphere, Destruction sphere, Admixture talent

Benefit: When using the Admixture talent, you may spend an additional spell point to center a Darkness effect on the target’s square or another affected square.

----

++ Combat Feats
Combat feats are combat-related options, and most notably, they can be selected as bonus feats by a number of different classes.

+++ Aligned Attacks (Combat)

Prerequisites: Non-neutral alignment, Alteration sphere, Fate sphere, 5th caster level or higher.

Benefit: Choose one alignment you possess. Your natural attacks count as that alignment for the purposes of overcoming damage reduction. If your alignment changes, you may select a new non-neutral alignment that you possess in place of the originally chosen alignment. If you cease to possess a non-neutral alignment, you lose the benefits of this feat until you gain a non-neutral alignment. This is an extraordinary (Ex) ability.

+++ Arcane Grip (Combat)

Prerequisites: Improved Grapple, Counterspell.

Benefit: When initiating a grapple, you may use the Counterspell feat as a free action. Resolve the counterspell attempt prior to applying the effects of freedom of movement, the freedom word of the Fate sphere, and similar effects. Additionally, you are always entitled to make a spellcraft check to identify such an effect on a creature within your reach as a free action.

+++ Augur of Combat (Combat)

Prerequisite: Int 13.

Benefit: As long as you are last in the initiative count, use your intelligence modifier for attack rolls in place of the ability modifier that you would normally use.

+++ Devourer (Combat)

Prerequisites: Serpentine Transformation talent or swallow whole ability, 10th caster level or higher.

Benefit: When you are grappling a creature, you may attempt to use your swallow whole ability as a free action. You gain a +2 competence bonus to CMB and CMD to make and resist grapple checks relating to the swallow whole ability. This is an extraordinary (Ex) ability.

+++ Disarming Transformation (Combat)

Prerequisites: Transform Object advanced talent.

Benefit: When targeted by an attack with a manufactured weapon within the range, you may spend a spell point as an immediate action to briefly shapeshift the weapon into an animal, disarming your foe. You must be aware of the attack. The target is allowed a Will save to negate this effect. On a failed save, the weapon immediately transforms into a Small animal or a group of Tiny animals and moves a short distance away before returning to its original form in a square of your choosing within 30 ft. of the target. The weapon’s movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. The transformed weapon will not pass through dangerous squares such as an energy wall, instead stopping in the previous square.

Alternately, you may spend a spell point as a standard action to shapeshift a manufactured weapon in the range into a hostile serpent that whips around to attack its wielder. The weapon’s wielder must make a Will save or the next time the weapon is used within 1 round per caster level for an attack, the damage of the attack is instead dealt to the wielder. The wielder cannot willingly reduce or deal nonlethal damage with this attack. Once the damage has been dealt, the effect is discharged. If you spend an additional spell point, the effect persists for 1 round per caster level, each attack after the first granting a Will save to end the effect.

+++ Militant Animation (Combat)

Prerequisites: Animate Object, BAB +1.

Benefit: Whenever you create an animated object, you may grant it a single Combat feat it qualifies for as a bonus feat. You may spend an additional spell point when using Animate Object to grant the object an additional bonus Combat feat it qualifies for.

Normal: Animated Objects are mindless, and do not possess any feats.

+++ Precognicient Protection (Combat)

Prerequisite: Divination sphere, one or more (sense) talents or abilities.

Benefit: You gain an insight bonus to armor class equal to the number of divination (sense) talents or abilities you have active (maximum 1 + 1 per 5 HD). In addition, you may as an immediate action spend a spell point and dismiss a (sense) ability you have active to cause a critical hit against you to become a regular hit instead.

+++ Precognicient Resistance (Combat)

Prerequisite: Divination sphere, one or more (sense) talents or abilities.

Benefit: You gain a resistance bonus to saves equal to the number of divination (sense) talents or abilities you have active (maximum 1 + 1 per 4 HD). In addition, you may as an immediate action spend a spell point and dismiss a divination (sense) ability you have active to reroll a saving throw you have failed.

+++ Precognicient Smite (Combat)

Prerequisite: Divination sphere, one or more (sense) talents or abilities.

Benefit: You gain an insight bonus to attack and damage equal to the number of divination (sense) abilities you currently have active (maximum 1 + 1 per 5 HD). You may as an immediate action spend a spell point and dismiss a divination (sense) ability you have active to ignore a percentage of miss chance (maximum 5% + 5% per 5 HD) for 1 round.

+++ Swarm Coordination (Combat)

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere, Swarm Transformation talent.

Benefit: When under the effects of the Swarm Transformation talent, you may perform combat maneuvers in place of dealing swarm damage. You may choose individually to deal damage or perform a maneuver against each creature that would receive swarm damage and may perform different maneuvers against each creature. These maneuvers provoke attacks of opportunity as normal. You may also hold and carry objects while in swarm form, though may not wield weapons or activate magic items. You count as a Small creature for determining your size bonus on these maneuvers and for carrying capacity, increasing by one size per 5 caster levels. Additionally, you threaten the squares you occupy while in swarm form, but still may not deal swarm damage as an attack of opportunity.

+++ Two-Headed Adept (Combat)

Prerequisites: Extra Limbs talent or multiple heads.

Benefit: When you have more than one head you do not take two-weapon fighting penalties to off-hand attacks or for wielding non-light weapons in your off hand.

+++ Two-Headed Sight (Combat)

Prerequisites: Extra Limbs talent or multiple heads.

Benefit: When you have more than one head you are immune to flanking.

+++ Venom Spitter (Combat)

Prerequisites: Poison bestial trait or Alteration sphere and Serpentine Transformation or Vermin Transformation talents, or racial poison ability.

Benefit: You may spit your poison as a ranged touch attack with a range of 20 ft. Treat the poison as a contact poison for this feat. This is an extraordinary (Ex) ability.

+++ Venomous Ichor (Combat)

Prerequisites: Poison bestial trait or Alteration sphere and Serpentine Transformation or Vermin Transformation talents, or racial poison ability.

Benefit: Any creature that confirms a critical hit against you with a piercing or slashing melee weapon is sprayed with your poison (treat the poison as a contact poison for this application). Melee weapons with reach don’t endanger their users in this way. You cannot use this ability if you do not have poison.

Additionally, you can apply your poison to a weapon or natural attack by dipping it in your own blood as a Swift action. This requires dealing 1d4 damage to yourself as part of the swift action unless you suffer from an ongoing bleed effect or are below half your maximum hit points. This is an extraordinary (Ex) ability.

+++ Venomous Soul (Combat)

Prerequisites: Poison bestial trait or Alteration sphere and Serpentine Transformation or Vermin Transformation talents, or racial poison ability.

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to the DC of the poison granted by your bestial trait, shapeshift, or race and the cure now requires an additional save. This is an extraordinary (Ex) ability.

+++ Web Mastery (Combat)

Prerequisites: Web bestial trait or Alteration sphere and Vermin Transformation talent.

Benefit: If you possess the Web bestial trait, increase the number of times per day you may use the Web bestial trait by twice your Constitution modifier. When you possess the Web alteration trait, it may be used a number of times per minute equal to your Constitution modifier.

Additionally, as a full round action, you may render a creature that is entangled by your web and within your reach helpless. Such a creature counts as being tied up, increasing the DC to escape to 20 + 1/2 of your Hit Dice + Constitution modifier. The helpless creature may still attempt Strength and Escape Artist checks to free themselves as normal.

----

++ Counterspell Feats
In Spheres of Power, dispelling and countering magic is done by way of the Counterspell feat chain.

+++ Counterspell

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, Magic Skill Bonus 5 or higher.

Benefit: You may spend a spell point as a standard action to dispel an existing magical effect on a creature, item, or location within Medium range. You may target a specific effect if you have identified it, otherwise the effect with the highest caster level on the target is automatically targeted. Alternatively, you may ready an action to use this ability to counter a spell or magical effect cast by another. In both cases, you must succeed at a magic skill check against the caster or magical effect in question. If you succeed then the targeted effect is destroyed.

If you target a magic item, the item is not destroyed; instead the item’s magical properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers its magical properties. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the effect. An interdimensional opening (such as a bag of holding) is temporarily closed. A magic item’s physical properties are unchanged; a suppressed magic sword is still a sword (a masterwork sword, in fact). Artifacts and deities are unaffected by mortal magic such as this.

This is treated as a sphere effect, and it is subject to all rules as a sphere ability, is affected by the caster’s casting tradition, and can itself be countered by another caster.

+++ Counterspell, Improved

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, Counterspell, Magic Skill Bonus 10 or higher.

Benefit: When using the Counterspell feat against a creature or object, you may spend an additional spell point to target an additional 1 magical effect on the target per 5 caster levels. Alternatively, you may spend an additional spell point to affect multiple effects in a 20-ft burst. Roll one MSB check and apply that check to each creature in the area, as if targeted by the basic Counterspell feat. Objects that are the target of magical effects are also targeted by this ability, but magic items are not.

For each ongoing effect that targets an area and whose point of origin is within the counterspell area, apply your MSB check to end that effect. If a magical effect overlaps the counterspell area but is not centered within it, apply your MSB check to end that effect, but only within the overlapping area.

If an object or creature within the area of effect is the result of ongoing magic (such as a summoned monster or companion, or an object created through the Creation sphere), apply the MSB check against the spell or effect that summoned them, causing them to disappear (or return to their home plane) if successful.

+++ Counterspell, Greater

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, Counterspell, Improved Counterspell, Magic Skill Bonus 15 or higher.

Benefit: When using the Counterspell feat, you may spend 2 additional spell points to target all magic within a 40-ft radius burst, whether it be magical effects or magic items. If your check succeeds against a magic item, that item’s magic is suppressed for 1 minute per caster level. If your check succeeds against a magical effect, the effect is destroyed.

You also have a 1% chance per caster level of destroying an antimagic field. If the antimagic field survives the greater counterspell, no items within it are affected.

You may also spend the 2 additional spell points, but only target a single item. Make your MSB check with a +5 bonus against this item. If you succeed, the item is permanently destroyed.

Even artifacts are subject to this effect, though there is only a 1% chance per caster level of actually affecting such powerful items. If successful, the artifact’s power unravels, and it is destroyed. If an artifact is destroyed, you must make a DC 25 Will save or permanently lose all spellcasting abilities. These abilities cannot be recovered by mortal magic, not even miracle or wish. Destroying artifacts is a dangerous business, and it is 95% likely to attract the attention of some powerful being who has an interest in or connection with the device.

+++ Counterspell Mastery

Prerequisites: Counterspell, Magic Skill Bonus 7 or higher.

Benefit: You may perform a counterspell as an immediate action by spending an additional spell point. You may only use a counterspell in this fashion when using it to counter an effect while it is being cast i.e., you cannot use this ability to dispel effects already in place or suppress magic items. You gain a +2 bonus to MSB checks made when using the Counterspell feat.

+++ Magician’s Trade

Prerequisites: Counterspell, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefit: Whenever you use Counterspell, you may end an enhancement affecting yourself to increase the number of magical effects you may end with Counterspell by one. There is no limit on the number of enhancements you may cancel to improve your Counterspell; however, you may only use enhancements you created yourself to fuel this feat.

+++ Spellthief

Prerequisites: Access to the Enhancement sphere, Counterspell.

Benefit: Whenever you successfully counterspell an effect that targets a creature or object, you may instead choose to reassign the effect’s targets. If you do so, you immediately take over concentration for the original caster (if the effect requires concentration), and the original caster cannot choose to prematurely end the effect.

+++ Proxy Counterspell
See the Proxy section.

----

++ Drawback Feats
Drawback feats present a way of taking advantage of a specific drawback in a manner more specific than just gaining extra spell points. At your GM’s option, you may take a drawback feat in place of a boon. An [[[Incanter]]] may select drawback feats as bonus feats.

+++ Addictive Power (Drawback)

Prerequisites: Addictive Casting, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefit: Your enhancements satisfy your addiction, to a degree; whenever you spend a spell point to relinquish concentration on an enhancement targeting yourself, the time until you begin suffering penalties extends to the end of the enhancement’s duration. In addition, you gain a +1 bonus to all saving throws while you are suffering the penalties from your addiction.

+++ Careful Magic (Drawback)

Prerequisites: Extended Casting, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefit: Your slow casting style results in more firmly constructed sphere effects. You add your casting ability score modifier as a bonus to your MSD (minimum +1) for the purposes of countering or dispelling your sphere effects. You may spend an additional spell point when enhancing a creature or object to force any creature attempting to dispel or counter that effect to roll twice and take the worse result.

+++ Magical Focus (Drawback)

Prerequisites: Focus Casting, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefits: Whenever you enhance your focus, you may choose to have the effect continue without concentration without spending a spell point. This feat only applies to the spell point spent to relinquish concentration. If another feat, talent, or class feature grants you the ability to spend more spell points when relinquishing concentration to improve the effects, you still need to spend the additional spell points to gain those benefits.

+++ Mystic Choreography (Drawback, Proxy)
See the Proxy section.

+++ Suffer by Proxy (Drawback)
See the Proxy section.

----

++ Dual Sphere Feats
Skilled magicians can learn to combine different fields of magic, allowing them to produce new effects or wield multiple forms of magic simultaneously. While the results are powerful, doing so requires great skill and concentration. Only the effects of one Dual Sphere feat can be applied to any given use of sphere abilities.

Note that the **Admixture** feats above do something similar, but emphasize the use of the Destructive Blast power of the [[[Destruction]]] sphere. If your character is particularly combat-focused, you may find that section useful. You may also wish to check out [[[Spellcrafting]]], which allows for more complex and creative mixes.

+++ Aurora (Dual Sphere)

Prerequisites: Light sphere, Weather sphere.

Benefit: When you use control weather, you may also choose to increase the light level by one step in the same area, up to a maximum of normal light. At 10th caster level, you may increase the light level by an additional step. Areas of magical darkness in range of this effect are unaffected, their light levels remaining unchanged.

+++ Beam Propulsion (Dual Sphere)

Prerequisites: Light sphere, Telekinesis sphere.

Benefit: By amplifying and focusing the tiny pressure exerted by light with your powers of telekinesis, you can move a target with the force of light alone. When you cause a target to glow, you may increase the casting time by one step to also lift it with your telekinesis as part of the same action. You may also concentrate to maintain concentration on the bright light of your glow and your telekinesis with a single action, though this increases the action needed to maintain concentration by one step (usually from a standard action to a full-round action).

+++ Bioluminescent Transformation (Dual Sphere)

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere, Light sphere.

Benefit: When you shapeshift a target, you may also cause that target to glow. In addition you may maintain concentration on the shapeshift and the bright light of the glow with a single action. If you apply a (light) talent to a glow created and maintained this way, it counts against the number of traits you may grant with your shapeshift.

+++ Destructive Radiance (Dual Sphere)

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Light sphere. 

Benefit: Whenever you use your destructive blast, you can choose to have it take on the properties of light. A destructive blast modified in this way no longer requires line of effect to its targets, but is blocked by factors that affect normal sight (such as concealment). For example, you could fire your destructive blast through a glass window or a barrier, but it would be blocked by opaque walls, fog or darkness.

+++ Enhancing Telekinesis

Prerequisites: Enhancement Sphere, Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: When you lift an object with your telekinesis, as part of the same action you may enhance it with one enhancement you possess. You may concentrate on lifting and enhancing the item with a single action. Only a single object can benefit from this combination, even if you can enhance or lift more than one at a time.

+++ Exceptional Ally

Prerequisites: Access to the Conjuration sphere, at least one (enhance) talent.

Benefit: Whenever you summon a companion, you may spend one spell point to enhance them as part of the same standard action. If you do so, the enhancement lasts for the full duration of the summoning effect.

+++ Hard Light (Dual Sphere)

Prerequisites: Creation sphere, Light sphere.

Benefit: When you create an object, you may make it out of hardened light instead of matter. Objects you create this way naturally shine, shedding bright light as if by your glow effect. Otherwise, an object created out of hardened light has the properties of any one material you can normally create, except that it has half its normal weight.

----

++ Extra Feats
Extra feats allow characters to either use their existing abilities more times each day, or learn a new ability associated with their class. There is no tag associated with this type of feat, but they have been grouped together here for easier reference.

+++ Extra Arsenal Trick

Prerequisite: Arsenal Trick class feature.

Benefit: Gain an arsenal trick for which you meet the prerequisites. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Bestial Trait

Prerequisite: Bestial Trait class feature.

Benefit: Gain an additional bestial trait for which you meet the prerequisites. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Breadth of Form

Prerequisites: Breadth of Form class feature.

Benefit: Increase the number of times per day you may use Breadth of Form by 2. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Electrokinetic Stunt

Prerequisites: Electrokinetic Stunt class feature

Benefit: You gain an additional electrokinetic stunt for which you qualify. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Emotion

Prerequisite: Emotion class feature.

Benefit: Gain the minor power of a new emotion or the next level of an emotion you already possess. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Invocations

Prerequisite: Invocations class feature.

Benefit: Increase the number of times per day you may use Invocations by 2. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Magic Talent

Prerequisite: Basic Magic Training or Casting class feature.

Benefit: Gain an additional sphere or a talent from a sphere you possess. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Mystic Combat

Prerequisite: Mystic Combat class feature.

Benefit: Gain an extra mystic combat ability for which you qualify. You may gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Nexus Powers

Prerequisite: Bound Nexus class feature.

Benefit: Increase the number of souls in your bound nexus by 2. You may gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Psionics

Prerequisite: Psionics class feature.

Benefit: You may use psionics an extra 6 rounds per day. You may gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Secret

Prerequisite: Secrets class feature.

Benefit: Gain an extra secret for which you qualify. You may gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Shadowstuff

Prerequisite: Shadowstuff class feature.

Benefit: Increase the number of shadow points you possess by 2. You may gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Spell Points

Prerequisite: Spell Pool. 

Benefit: Your spell pool total increases by 2. You may gain this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

+++ Extra Unseen Augmentation

Prerequisites: Unseen Forces class feature

Benefit: You gain an additional unseen augmentation for which you qualify. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.

----

++ General Feats
General feats have no tags and do not belong in any other category. They mostly feature abilities that are good for many types of characters and enhancements to specific class abilities, but anything that doesn't fit into any other category is likely to be found here.

+++ Advanced Magical Training

Prerequisites: Basic Magical Training or 1 level in a casting class.

Benefit: Treat your levels in non-casting classes as low-casting classes when determining your total caster level. If you do not possess levels in a casting class, increase your spell point pool to equal your casting ability modifier. With GM permission, you may also select a casting tradition when you gain this feat.

+++ Arcane Empowerment

Prerequisites: Spell pool, the ability to cast arcane or divine spells.

Benefit: When casting a spell, you may spend 1 spell point as a free action to either increase the caster level by 2 or increase the spell’s DC by 2. You cannot spend more than 1 spell point in this manner. This does not stack with an arcanist’s ability to increase a spell’s caster level or DC through the expenditure of points from their arcane reservoir.

+++ Artificery

Prerequisite: Any Craft or Profession skill (5 ranks).

Benefit: Select one Craft or Profession skill in which you have at least 5 ranks. You gain a +2 bonus on your chosen Craft or Profession skill. You may use your ranks in this Craft or Profession skill as if it were your caster level when qualifying for Item Creation feats, and when determining how powerful of an enchantment you may place upon an item. Possessing this feat does not, however, grant you access to any magic spheres when determining which enchantments you may place upon an item. You must use your chosen Craft or Profession skill when creating a magic item, and cannot work with any item or material not related to your chosen skill.

+++ Artificery, Improved

Prerequisites: Any Craft or Profession skill (10 ranks), Artificery

Benefit: When using the skill chosen with the Artificery feat to create a magic item, you may craft that magic item whether or not you possess its prerequisite base sphere. Crafting a magic item in this fashion increases the skill check required to make the item by +5.

+++ Basic Magical Training

Prerequisite: No levels in any spellcasting class.

Benefit: Choose a sphere of magic. You gain access to this basic sphere. You gain an effective caster level of 1 and a spell pool of 1. Use your highest mental ability as your casting ability score.

If you later gain levels in a spellcasting class, exchange this feat for the Extra Magical Talent feat.

+++ Blessing/Blight Mastery

Prerequisites: Blessing/Blight class feature, Channel Energy class feature

Benefit: When you channel energy, you may spend an additional use of channel energy to apply a blessing or blight to one creature that was affected by your channeling. This creature is allowed a saving throw as usual, if they would normally be granted one.

+++ Blessing/Blight Versatility

Prerequisites: Blessing/Blight class feature, Channel Energy class feature, Versatile Channeler.

Benefit: If you can apply Blessings to targets, you may now also apply Blights, treating your soul weaver level as being effectively 2 levels lower for this purpose.

If you can apply Blights to targets, you may now also apply Blessings, treating your soul weaver level as being effectively 2 levels lower for this purpose.

+++ Cantrips

Prerequisite: Casting class feature or Basic Magic Training.

Benefit: You can create a variety of small magical effects. These effects are not powerful and are treated as sphere effects in all ways. They require a standard action to use, have a range of Close, and are either instantaneous or have a duration of 1 hour depending on the effect created.

* You may make a ranged touch attack, dealing 1d3 acid, electricity, fire, or cold damage to a target.
* You may clean, soil, or color up to 1 cubic ft of material per round.
* You may create floating lights the size of candle flames and move them up to 20 ft per round as a free action.
* You may create a spark such as with flint and steel, which may ignite flammable, unattended Fine objects.
* You may open or close a door or container weighing no more than 30 lbs.
* You may chill, warm, or flavor 1 lbs. of nonliving material.
* You may create a small breeze from whichever direction you choose, strong enough to rustle clothing and flicker candles.
* You may lift objects weighing up to 1 lbs. and move them up to 10 ft per round.
* You may create small non-speech sounds, such as that of a mouse screeching, soft simple harp music, or the hubbub of a whispered conversation.

You can make up new effects, but they should not be more powerful than those listed above. The GM is the final arbiter of what is or is not a cantrip.

**Wiki Note:** An optional rule for Spheres of Power is giving this feat for free to all casters. Ask your GM about this if you're interested.

+++ Channel Destruction

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Channel Energy class feature

Benefit: You may imbue your channel energy with a blast type talent. This channeled energy may only be used to harm, but affects all creatures in the area, not just living or undead. The channeled energy does its normal number of damage dice of a die size and damage type corresponding to the chosen blast type. Additional effects apply as usual for the chosen blast type. If more than one blast type is known, a different blast type may be selected each time channel energy is used. For example, a 5th level soul weaver with this feat and the Crystal Blast talent could channel energy, dealing 3d4 piercing damage as well as the effects of Crystal Blast in the normal area and with the normal DC of her Channel Energy. If, for example, she also possesses the Searing Blast talent, the next round she can channel energy, dealing 3d8 fire damage.

If the (blast type) talent chosen has additional spell point costs, an additional use of channel energy must be used in place of each spell point required.

+++ Channel Destruction, Greater

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Channel Energy class feature, Channel Destruction

Benefit: When using Channel Destruction, you may spend a spell point to increase the damage to one die per level in the class that grants channel energy that you possess.

+++ Circle Casting

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, 10th caster level or higher.

Benefit: You may aid another spellcaster who also possesses this feat, granting them a temporary +1 bonus to their caster level, as well as granting them access to your spell points and talents as if they possessed them. You must spend a standard action every round to maintain this ability, and you must be within 30 ft of the caster you are aiding in this manner.

A target may be aided by multiple casters at once in this manner, but all involved casters must remain within 30 ft of each other, and the effects are not strictly cumulative. It takes one aiding caster to add a +1 enhancement bonus, three to add a +2 bonus, six to add a +3 bonus, ten to add a +4 bonus, and fifteen to add a +5 bonus. No caster may receive more than a +5 bonus in this manner.

+++ Contingency

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, 10th caster level or higher.

Benefit: You may spend a spell point and ten minutes of preparation to use a sphere effect in such a way that it comes into effect under some later condition you have previously dictated. You must pay any spell point costs associated with the desired effect and must place the effect on yourself or onto a creature or location within Close range. The creature or area selected must be the target of the Sphere effect.

The conditions needed to activate the effect must be clear, but they can be general. (If the caster is dropped below half hit points, if an elf enters the room, or if Madame Deflour comes within Close range are all examples of contingency conditions.)

In all cases, the contingency causes the sphere effect to manifest instantly when the prescribed circumstances occur. If complicated or convoluted conditions are prescribed, the effect may fail when triggered. The effect occurs based solely on the stated conditions, regardless of whether you want it to. You may only have one contingency active at a time; any previous unused contingency effect is dispelled when a new one is created. A caster always knows when their contingency is triggered, even if they aren’t present. If a contingency is placed on a creature or location, it can be detected and dispelled like any other sphere effect. For this purpose, a contingency is considered a magical trap with a Perception and Disable Device DC equal to 25 + 1/2 the caster level.

If a contingency remains unused when a caster rests to regain spell points, they may choose to dispel the contingency or sustain it, in which case they do not recover the spell points used to create the contingency.

+++ Contingency Tampering

Prerequisites: Enhanced Contingency.

Benefits: You gain the following enhancements, which may be used to enhance sphere abilities enhanced by Contingency.
* Introduce Flexibility: You may spend 1 spell point to enhance a contingency, granting it an additional condition – this additional trigger must be a valid condition, as defined by the Contingency feat. If either condition is met, the contingent sphere ability triggers immediately.
* Suppress Triggers: You may spend 1 spell point to enhance a contingency, removing its trigger condition for the duration.

You may only target your own contingencies, as well as any other contingencies that you know the trigger condition for.

+++ Create Spell Book

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, Spellcrafting.

Benefit: You may write down your spells in a magic book, allowing you access to more spells than the usual limit. See the Advanced Magic section for more information on spellcrafting and spellbooks.

+++ Elicit Strike

Prerequisites: Improved Unarmed Strike, Emotion class feature.

Benefit: If you make a successful unarmed strike against an opponent, in addition to dealing your unarmed strike damage, you can spend a swift action to deliver the effects of an emotion power with ‘touch’ in its name. Doing so provokes no attacks of opportunity.

+++ Enhanced Contingency

Prerequisites: Contingency, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefit: You may enhance a contingency effect. If the contingency creates or summons a valid target for that enhancement, the enhancement is transferred to that target. Otherwise, the enhancement is transferred to the sphere effect once it takes effect. You may spend an additional spell point when applying the enhancement to tie it into the Contingency; if you do so, time spent prior to the Contingency triggering does not count towards the enhancement’s duration.

+++ Fool Magic

Prerequisites: Deceitful, Iron Will, Bluff 7 ranks, Disguise 7 ranks

Benefit: When you succeed at a Will saving throw made against any magical effect, the caster of that effect does not automatically know you have succeeded at your saving throw. This allows you to attempt a Bluff check against their Sense Motive check to convince them that you failed your saving throw and are under the effects of the magic. You can choose to allow supplementary effects of the magic (such as the telepathic link provided by the dominate person spell or the Dominate advanced Mind talent) to function as if you had failed your saving throw, to aid in the deception. You may dismiss the supplementary effect early as a standard action.

+++ Greater Hypnosis

Prerequisite: Hypnotism class feature.

Benefit: The range at which you may affect targets with your hypnotism increases to Medium range.

Normal: You may only affect targets with your hypnotism at Close range.

+++ Greater Shadowmark

Prerequisite: Shadowmark class feature.

Benefit: Your shadowmark deals d8s for damage instead of d6s.

+++ Improved Favored Element

Prerequisites: Two favored elements

Benefit: Your second and third favored elements receive the same damage bonus as your first favored element.

+++ Lingering Link

Prerequisites: Psionics class feature, mind link psionic effect.

Benefit: When affecting targets with your mind link psionic effect, you only need to spend 1 round of psionic power per minute the effect is maintained, rather than every round.

+++ Lingering Link, Greater

Prerequisites: Psionics class feature, mind link psionic effect, Lingering Link.

Benefit: You may use your mind link psionic effect jointly with other psionic effects. You must start each psionic effects individually and must spend the cost for each effect while maintaining them. Ending one effect does not necessitate ending the other.

+++ Lingering Psionics

Prerequisite: Psionics class feature.

Benefit: The bonuses and penalties from your psionics continue for 2 rounds after you cease using it. Any other requirement, such as range or specific conditions, must still be met for the effect to continue. If you begin a new psionic effect during this time, the bonuses and penalties of the previous psionic effect immediately cease.

+++ Lurker in Darkness

Prerequisite: Stealth 6 ranks.

Benefit: Creatures using unusual forms of sensory perception such as blindsight, greensight, or tremorsense cannot automatically foil your use of Stealth; such creatures must make a Perception check as normal to detect you when you make use of the Stealth skill. Lurker in Darkness foils divination sphere sense abilities in the manner described above, but has no effect on sphere, spell-like and/or supernatural abilities specifically used to uncover information about you rather than enhancing the user’s perception, such as with the divination sphere divine abilities.

//Note:// This feat was previously published in the Psionic Bestiary, by Dreamscarred Press. It has been modified to work with Spheres of Power.

+++ Master Artisan

Prerequisites: Forbidden lore class feature, at least 1 item creation feat.

Benefit: Choose one item creation feat that you possess. Add your forbidden lore bonus to your caster level when determining how powerful of an enchantment you may place upon an item.

+++ Master of Cosmos

Prerequisites: Forbidden lore class feature, Conjuration sphere.

Benefit: Your companions gain a circumstance bonus to attack rolls and skill checks equal to your forbidden lore bonus.

+++ Master of Death

Prerequisites: Forbidden lore class feature, Death sphere.

Benefit: Add your forbidden lore bonus to your caster level when determining the number of undead creatures you may control at any one time through the Death sphere.

+++ Master of Small Magics

Prerequisites: Cantrips, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefit: You may use leaked magic from your enhancements to improve your Cantrips. Whenever you use Cantrips while under the effects of one of your own enhancements, you may either increase the range to Medium, double the duration, or double the amount of matter you can affect at one time. In addition, you may choose to use any creature or object within 30 ft. that is under the effects of one of your enhancements as the origin for any Cantrip you use.

+++ Mind Opener

Prerequisites: Psionics class feature, battlefield relay psionic effect.

Benefit: Increase the save DC of your battlefield relay psionic effect by +2.

+++ Occult Savant

Prerequisites: Occult Knowledge class feature, Spellcraft, Use Magic Device, or any Knowledge skill 10 ranks.

Benefit: You may take 10 with any Knowledge, Spellcraft, or Use Magic Device check, regardless of stress or other situations where taking 10 would otherwise be impossible.

+++ Perceptive Psionics

Prerequisites: Psionics class feature, battlefield relay psionic effect, Perception 7 ranks, Sense Motive 7 ranks.

Benefit: You may read a target’s subtle movements, even if you cannot read their mind. If a target makes their saving throw against your battlefield relay, you may still activate the effect against them. When using battlefield relay in this fashion, the bonuses granted are divided by 2.

Your battlefield relay persists at half strength for as long as it is maintained. If you wish to attempt your battlefield relay again, you must cease your battlefield relay and use it again.

You may even target creatures with your battlefield relay that are usually immune to mind-affecting abilities. These targets needn’t make a Will save, and the bonuses are always divided by 2 against them.

+++ Ritual Caster

Prerequisite: Casting class feature.

Benefit: You may use a ritual, even if you do not possess that ritual’s base sphere (see Chapter 4: Advanced Magic). If you also possess the Craft Rituals item creation feat, you still cannot research a ritual unless you meet all of its prerequisites.

+++ Ritual Master

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, Ritual Caster.

Benefit: You may use your MSB in place of your caster level when using rituals.

+++ Shadowblast

Prerequisite: Shadowmark class feature.

Benefit: When using your shadowmark, you may spend an extra shadow point to change the effect from a ranged touch attack into a Close-ranged cone. All creatures within this area are allowed a Reflex save for half damage. If they succeed at this Reflex save, they do not suffer the penalty to Will saves.

+++ Spellcrafting

Prerequisite: Casting class feature.

Benefit: You may mix and match powers from various spheres into spells of your own creation. See Chapter 4: Advanced Magic for more information on spellcrafting.

+++ Sphere Focus

Prerequisite: Casting class feature.

Benefit: Choose a sphere. You gain a +1 bonus to saving throw DCs for all abilities from that sphere. You may take this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. each time it is gained, apply this benefit to a different sphere.

+++ Trance

Prerequisite: Emotion class feature.

Benefit: You may apply any emotion power with ‘touch’ in the name to yourself as a move action instead of a standard action. Doing so does not provoke an attack of opportunity.

+++ Two Minds

Prerequisites: Extra Limbs talent or multiple heads.

Benefit: When you have more than one head and are the target of a mind-affecting ability that allows a Will save, you may spend a spell point as a free action, even if it is not your turn, to reroll the save after the die is rolled but before the result is revealed.

+++ Wand Wielder

Prerequisite: 10th caster level or higher.

Benefit: When wielding a wand, use your caster level in place of the wand’s caster level (if it is higher) when calculating its abilities.

----

++ Item Creation Feats
Item Creation feats are used to create magical items or access other types of advanced casting techniques. Spheres of Power mainly uses the standard feats for crafting (with some modifications - see the [[[Magical Items]]] page for details), but also offers access to Ritual magic through the following feat.

+++ Craft Rituals (Item Creation feat)

Prerequisite: 3rd caster level or higher.

Benefit: You may research rituals. See Advanced Magic for more information on researching rituals.

----

++ Metamagic Feats
Applying a metamagic feat to a sphere effect is similar to, but slightly different from, how a spontaneous caster applies a metamagic feat to a spell. A caster may choose to augment their sphere effect with an appropriate metamagic feat at the time of casting. To use a metamagic feat, the caster must spend a number of additional spell points equal to the level increase of the metamagic feat. In addition, the sphere effect’s casting time increases by 1 step. These effects are cumulative for every metamagic feat applied.

Example: A Thaumaturge uses a powerful destructive blast with the explosive orb talent (2 spell points) augmented by the Maximize Spell (3 spell points), and Silent Spell (1 spell point) metamagic talents. This costs 6 spell points and takes 1 round to cast (+2 time increases).

The only exception to this is Quicken Spell which, instead of increasing the casting time, decreases the casting time by 2 steps to a minimum of one swift action. Like all metamagic feats, a caster cannot apply Quicken Spell multiple times to the same effect.

The following metamagic feats may all be applied to an appropriate sphere effect: Bouncing Spell, Coaxing Spell, Consecrate Spell, Widen Spell, Disruptive Spell, Ectoplasmic Spell, Empower Spell, Enlarge Spell, Reach Spell, Extend Spell, Focused Spell, Jinxed Spell, Lingering Spell, Maximize Spell, Merciful Spell, Persistent Spell, Piercing Spell, Quicken Spell, Selective Spell, Silent Spell (if the caster possesses the Verbal Casting drawback), Still Spell (if the caster possesses the Somatic Casting drawback), Thanatopic Spell, and Threnodic Spell.

If the effect of a metamagic feat is determined by spell level, treat the sphere effect’s caster level/2 as its effective spell level.

+++ Delayed Magic (Metamagic)

Prerequisite: Spell pool class feature.

Benefit: You delay the effect of a sphere ability for up to 5 rounds after you use it. You must select the amount of delay when using the effect. The area or target to be affected must be within range when the ability is used, but need not remain in your range (you or it may move) before the effect activates. Cost: +1 spell point.

----

++ Protokinesis Feats
Protokinesis feats represent innate telekinetic abilities, powers usable with minimal thought and effort in contrast to the magic of the telekinesis sphere. They often develop unintentionally, without need for training or even awareness of them.

Unless noted otherwise, the benefit granted by any protokinesis feat is a spell-like ability with a caster level equal to your character level. In addition, protokinesis feats do not function when you are unconscious.

The effects of protokinesis feats last indefinitely unless otherwise noted, though they may be dismissed as a free action, or restarted as a standard action if they have been dispelled or dismissed.

+++ Counterweight (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Acrobatics 3 ranks, Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: By applying your telekinetic powers to your own body you can stand on surfaces that could not normally support your weight, allowing you to balance on a single thread or walk across liquid, though you must still make Acrobatics checks to balance on narrow or difficult surfaces. You cannot walk on normal gaseous substances such as air or clouds, though you could balance on a solid fog spell. In addition, you may add your casting ability modifier as a bonus to Acrobatics checks.

+++ Force Shield (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: By forming a thin field of telekinetic force with your hand as a swift action you can gain a +2 shield bonus to your armor class. Unlike an actual shield it imposes no spell failure or armor check penalty and does not count as wielding a shield for the purposes of class features and other effects. You must keep at least one hand free to maintain your force shield.

+++ Gravitic Anomaly (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Telekinesis Sphere, Counterweight

Benefit: Due to your control over your personal gravity, you can move on walls and ceilings and other surfaces as if they were the ground. If you are tripped or fall prone, the area’s normal gravity reasserts itself and you fall to the ground, taking falling damage as appropriate for your distance above the ground.

+++ Kinetic Drift (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Character level 5th, Telekinesis Sphere, Counterweight

Benefit: You can float above the ground instead of walking. You can hover up to 1 ft above the ground, allowing you to ignore difficult terrain. When falling you may choose to descend at a slower rate to control your fall and to negate all falling damage you would take. Each round you descend 30 ft, and may move in another direction for 30 ft. You may choose to drift sideways, gliding forwards while descending, or down, safely increasing your rate of descent. You may even choose to drift ‘upwards’ to reduce your rate of descent, even allowing you to negate it entirely and hover midair.

+++ Mind Limb (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: Your telekinetic powers give you an additional arm made of telekinetic force. Your telekinetic limb functions much as a normal arm can, but to an extent can also act independently. As a swift action you can use it to draw a sheathed or hidden weapon, ready a shield, retrieve a stored item, load a crossbow, open a door, pick up an unattended item, sheathe or store an item, or take other non-offensive actions involving manipulating objects. Your telekinetic limb cannot effectively wield weapons or shields or activate magic items, but can pass such items to another hand as part of any other action it takes.

+++ Telekinetic Exoskeleton (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Character level 3rd, Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: With your telekinesis you can supplement your physical skills. As a swift action you can give yourself one of the following benefits:

* Tactile Telekinesis: You add your casting ability modifier as a bonus to Strength checks, and Climb and Swim checks.
* Dampening Field: You gain temporary hit points equal to your casting ability modifier. They do not stack with themselves or other temporary hit points.
* Propelling Force: You gain a +10 ft enhancement bonus to your movement speeds.

These benefits lasts indefinitely. If you activate one of these benefits while a previous benefit is still in effect, the first benefit ends immediately.

+++ Touchsense (Protokinesis)

Prerequisites: Perception 5 ranks, Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: You can use your telekinesis to sense your surroundings, passively measuring vibrations in the ground. You gain tremorsense with a 15 ft range.

//Special:// If you possess the Kinetic Sense talent, add 15 ft to the range of the tremorsense it provides.

----

++ Proxy Feats
Proxy feats represent an enhanced ability to manipulate and take advantage of the Create Proxy enhancement, which by default is granted by the Spell Proxy feat. Unless otherwise stated, these feats only apply to Create Proxy effects that you created yourself, and only affect creatures under the effects of Create Proxy who are within 30 ft. Generally, using a proxy feat immediately ends the Create Proxy effect for that creature. An incanter may select proxy feats as bonus feats.

+++ Defensive Proxies (Proxy)

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you fail a saving throw against a sphere effect, any creature within that is currently under the effects of Create Proxy may spend an immediate action to allow you to reroll your saving throw. Doing so causes Create Proxy to immediately end for that creature.

+++ Link Fate (Proxy)

Prerequisites: Fate Magnet, Spell Proxy.

Benefit: You may treat Fate Magnet as if it were Create Proxy for the purposes of your Proxy feats. In addition, whenever you are targeted by a word, you may take an immediate action to have it affect a creature under the effects of Create Proxy instead. Doing so causes Create Proxy to end immediately for that creature.

+++ Maintain Proxy

Prerequisites: At least one Proxy feat.

Benefit: Whenever one of your Create Proxy effects would end due to a Proxy feat, you may spend 1 spell point to prevent it from ending prematurely.

+++ Mystic Choreography (Drawback, Proxy)

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy, at least one of Skilled Casting, Somatic Casting, or Verbal Casting.

Benefit: Whenever you use a sphere ability, any creature currently under the effects of Create Proxy may take an immediate action to perform one of your required components for you. As long as that creature meets the criteria for the drawback in question, you may ignore it for the purposes of that sphere ability. Regardless of whether or not this attempt is successful, the Create Proxy effect ends immediately.

+++ Mystic Generosity

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you use Create Proxy on a creature, you may spend a spell point to grant them the Basic Magical Training feat as a bonus feat while they are under the effects of that enhancement. The sphere they gain access to must be one that you also have access to.

Special: If the target of Create Proxy doesn’t meet the prerequisites for Basic Magical Training, they gain Extra Magic Talent as a bonus feat instead. The bonus talent they gain must be one that you also possess.

+++ Proxy Counterspell (Proxy)

Prerequisites: Counterspell, Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you use Counterspell, any creature under the effects of Create Proxy may spend an immediate action to allow you to end an additional effect. Doing so causes Create Proxy to end immediately for that creature.

+++ Proxy Network (Proxy)

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you use a sphere effect with a range of touch, you may choose to have it originate from a creature under the effects of Create Proxy instead of yourself. Doing so causes Create Proxy to end immediately.

+++ Spell Proxy

Prerequisites: Circle Casting, access to the Enhancement sphere.

Benefit: You gain access to an additional enhancement, which you may use normally:

* Create Proxy: You may enhance creatures, allowing them to act as aiding casters as if they themselves possessed the Circle Casting feat. They do not need to have any magic talents or a spell pool to do so.

Special: You may incorporate Create Proxy into a spell as if it were an Enhancement talent. You may not take Spell Proxy if you have the Personal Magics drawback.

+++ Spell Proxy, Extended

Prerequisites: At least one Proxy feat.

Benefit: The benefits of your Proxy feats apply to creatures within 60 ft.

Normal: Proxy feats only apply to creatures within 30 ft.

+++ Spell Proxy, Improved

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you use Create Proxy, you may also transfer the concentration to maintain one sphere effect to the targets. If they possess spell points of their own, they may spend them in your place to have the effect continue without concentration.

+++ Spreading Magic (Proxy)

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you use a sphere ability that targets a creature, a creature under the effects of Create Proxy may choose to become an additional target if they are also within range. Doing so causes Create Proxy to end immediately for that creature.

+++ Suffer By Proxy (Drawback)

Prerequisites: Draining Casting, Spell Proxy.

Benefit: Whenever you use a sphere ability, you may choose to have a creature under the effects of Create Proxy suffer the nonlethal damage for you. The creature must be within the range of one of your Proxy feats, and must not be immune to nonlethal damage. You cannot choose to split up the nonlethal damage; all of it must be dealt to a single creature.

+++ Tactical Proxies

Prerequisites: Spell Proxy, any one Teamwork feat.

Benefit: You may treat any creature under the effects of Create Proxy as if they shared all of your Teamwork feats. They do not gain the benefits of your Teamwork feats unless they actually have it themselves.

Special: If you also have Improved Spell Proxy, you may choose to grant them the benefits of one of your Teamwork feats instead of transferring concentration.

----

++ Teamwork Feats
Teamwork feats are special in that they generally require at least two characters to know them in order to take effect, although some classes have abilities that make them easier to use.

+++ Cooperative Mind (Teamwork)

Prerequisites: Must have been subject to the Fusion advanced talent, 5th character level or higher.

Benefit: When under the effects of the Fusion advanced talent with another creature that possesses this feat, you may act together more efficiently. You may choose to cooperate, allowing each creature to use the body to take a standard action. This consumes the amalgamated body’s full round action, but leaves each mind with their normal move and swift actions. This allows both creatures to supply verbal or somatic spell components, allows either creature to make attacks of opportunity, grants each creature access to combat feats known by the other, and allows the you to choose which mind is targeted by effects requiring a Will save until the start of your next turn.

----

+ Sphere-focused Feats
Sphere-focused feats are not tagged, but emphasize the use of one specific Sphere more than any other. Due to the high number of them, they have been sorted into categories here. Note that some feats require multiple spheres to use - in these cases, they've been sorted into the sphere they are most associated with. For using multiple Spheres at once, see the 'Dual Spheres' section of this page.

++ Alteration

+++ Companion Merger

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere, Mass Alteration, animal companion or familiar.

Benefit: You may merge your body with your adjacent animal companion or familiar. You may target your companion and yourself with a mass shapeshift, paying the normal SP cost. The merged form counts as one creature and retains the physical form of your companion or familiar (physical statistics, natural attacks, supernatural and extraordinary abilities, movement speeds, initiative, etc.) but gains your mental ability scores, casting ability, feats, BAB (if higher), and base saving throws (if higher). You may instead merge the companion or familiar with yourself, gaining the companion or familiar’s natural attacks (limited by the presence of suitable limbs), supernatural and extraordinary abilities, and movement speeds.

The merged body has the current and maximum hit points of either creature at your choice, increasing its current and maximum hit points by those of the other creature for the duration of the effect. You may add traits to the merged form as normal for your shapeshift. If the merged creature is killed, the effect ends and both you and your companion or familiar die. If either you or your companion is suffering the effects of a disease, poison, or ongoing spell effect, the amalgamated body immediately receives a new save at a +4 bonus unless both creatures are under the same effect.

When this effect ends, any hit point damage, ability damage, ability drain, or other such penalty incurred is split evenly between you (round up). If this damage would be sufficient to reduce either of you to death, that creature is instead reduced to 1 hit point above its death threshold and stabilized, and the excess damage is transferred to the other creature. If it would reduce an ability score below 0, or 1 in the case of Constitution, any excess is transferred to the other creature. Any spell effects, poisons, diseases, or other effects that affected the merged creature continue to affect both of you, but durations are halved and any subsequent saves are made at a +4 bonus. If the companion or familiar possesses immunity to an ongoing effect, the effect is suppressed until the merger ends. If the merger ends in a space too small to accommodate your body, you or your companion (your choice) is shunted to the nearest empty space, taking 1d6 damage per 10 ft. of solid material passed through.

+++ Cursed Form

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere, 5th caster level or higher.

Benefit: You may grant your shapeshift effects the [curse] descriptor. They can only be removed by the Life sphere Break Enchantment talent, spells such as break enchantment, limited wish, miracle, remove curse, or wish, or similarly powerful magic or abilities. If you possess the Unnatural Transformation drawback, failing the save granted by the drawback still ends the effect.

+++ Favored Form

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere.

Benefit: Choose one Alteration sphere talent that you possess that grants a form. You may increase the number of traits granted by your shapeshift when granting that form by 1.

Special: You may take this feat more than once; each time it applies to a different Alteration talent.

+++ Hybrid Transformation

Prerequisites: Transformation.

Benefit: When changing into the form granted by your transformation feat, you may instead assume a hybrid form, blending your base form and your transformation form. You gain all natural attacks, special abilities, and movement modes from your transformation form. You may choose to retain limbs from your base form if your transformation form lacks them, such as a humanoid keeping arms when assuming a hybrid form based on Serpentine Transformation or Vermin Transformation, adding legs to Aquan Transformation, or a winged creature retaining its wings under Animalistic Transformation.

If your transformation would grant you additional legs, you may instead gain them as arms, although they do not grant any additional attacks, are not strong enough to gain any natural attacks, and may not assist in wielding weapons, activate magic items, or wield a shield. They may hold items and as a swift action you can use them to draw a sheathed or hidden weapon, ready a shield, retrieve a stored item, load a crossbow, open a door, pick up an unattended item, sheathe or store an item, or take other non-offensive actions involving manipulating objects.

Special: Traits granted from the Improved Transformation feat apply to both your base transformation form and your hybrid form.

+++ Improved Transformation

Prerequisites: Transformation, 5th Character level or higher.

Benefit: Choose one trait available to the Blank Form ability of the Alteration sphere, from the talent chosen for the Transformation feat, another Alteration sphere talent you possess, or another trait deemed appropriate to the form selected for your Transformation feat by the GM. You gain that trait while under the effects of your Transformation feat. You may instead take the Perfect Imitation talent or the Retain Ability talent and may apply them to your Transformation form. Additionally, the time required to change shape with the Transformation feat is reduced by one step, to a minimum of a swift action.

Special: You may take this feat multiple times, up to once per 5 character levels. Its effects stack. Traits gained from this feat count against the maximum number of traits you may receive from the shapeshift ability of the Alteration sphere. You may choose to suppress one or more traits granted by this ability when you assume your Transformation form.

**Alternate**

Choose one trait for every 5 character levels you possess (minimum 1) from the Blank Form ability of the Alteration sphere, from the talent chosen for the Transformation feat, another Alteration sphere talent you possess, or another trait deemed appropriate to the form selected for your Transformation feat by the GM. You may not select a trait that carries an additional SP cost. You gain these traits while under the effects of your Transformation feat. Once selected, these traits cannot be changed. You may take the Perfect Imitation talent or the Retain Ability talent in place of a trait and may apply them to your Transformation form. Additionally, the time required to change shape with the Transformation feat is reduced to a swift action.

Special: Traits gained from this feat count against the maximum number of traits you may receive from the shapeshift ability of the Alteration sphere. You may choose to suppress one or more traits granted by this ability when you assume your Transformation form. Alternatively, you may choose to gain one or more traits without the base form.

+++ Shifting Disguise

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere.

Benefit: You may alter the shape, color, and texture of your body to mimic other creatures. As a full-round action, you may reshape your body, but not your clothes, armor, or equipment, to mimic another creature of your size, appearing to be of another race, sex, and build, though you cannot add or remove limbs or disguise major wounds, granting a +10 circumstance bonus on Disguise checks. This change persists until you change form again. The bonus on Disguise checks does not stack with that granted by the shapeshift ability of the Alteration sphere, a hat of disguise, the Realistic Likeness feat, or similar sources. You cannot assume the form of a specific individual unless you also possess the Perfect Imitation talent. This is a supernatural polymorph effect.

Special: You may gain traits from the Blank Form option of the shapeshift ability of the Alteration sphere while under the effects of this feat even though it is a polymorph effect. If you possess the Perfect Imitation talent, you may choose to merge your currently worn equipment and mimic clothing and armor per that talent. If your base form changes (such as with shapeshift or the Transformation feat), you cease to benefit from the bonus to disguise checks until using this feat again.

+++ Shifting Mastery

Prerequisites: Combat Casting.

Benefit: When targeting only yourself with a shapeshift effect, your casting does not provoke attacks of opportunity. Additionally, you may take 10 on any concentration checks related to casting Alteration sphere effects.

+++ Transformation (Su)

Benefit: Choose one Alteration sphere talent that grants a form but does not cost a spell point. As a full-round action, you may assume the form of a single creature whose type corresponds to this form talent (see Creature Types and Form Talents on the [[[Alteration]]] page) per the shapeshift ability of the Alteration sphere as a supernatural ability. The same creature (wolf, spider, treant, etc.) is mimicked and the appearance of that creature is retained each time. The chosen form may be the same as your base size or else Medium or Small. When assuming your chosen form, you gain the chosen size. This transformation lasts until you choose to revert to your original form as a full-round action. You gain all the abilities granted by this form (movement modes, natural attacks, special abilities, etc.) but but do not gain any traits from the Alteration sphere as part of this transformation. Treat your HD as your caster level for the purposes of this effect. This is a polymorph effect.

Additionally, you gain the shapechanger subtype.

Special: You may gain traits from the Blank Form option of the shapeshift ability of the Alteration sphere while under the effects of this feat even though it is a polymorph effect. This feat counts as possessing the Alteration sphere and the chosen form-granting talent for the purpose of meeting feat prerequisites. If you possess the Perfect Imitation talent or Shifting Disguise feat, you may make cosmetic changes to your Transformation form per the base Alteration sphere trait.

+++ Wild Casting

Prerequisites: Alteration sphere, Somatic or Verbal Casting drawbacks.

Benefit: You may supply somatic and verbal components even when in a form not normally able to do so.

++ Conjuration



++ Creation

+++ Aligned Object

Prerequisites: Animate Object, must not be True Neutral.

Benefit: Any animated object you create gains the subtypes of your alignment. In addition, you gain access to the following additional ability and flaw:

* Aligned Weapons (Su; 1 CP): The animated object’s slam attacks deal 1d6 additional damage to creatures whose alignment opposes one of the animated object’s alignment subtypes. This ability may be chosen multiple times; its effects stack.

* Heavily Aligned (Su; +1 CP): The animated object’s hardness is bypassed by weapons and effects that are aligned to an alignment that opposes one of the animated object’s alignment subtypes.

++ Dark



++ Death

+++ Piecemeal Animation

Prerequisites: Death Sphere, Telekinesis Sphere, Divided Mind

Benefit: When you reanimate a dead body, it does not need to be intact. So long as at least half the body remains you can animate it as if it was intact, stitching its broken form together with telekinetic forces that keep it upright and stable. You may even work with worse material than this, merging smaller pieces of different bodies and animating them as single whole so long as you have enough material and all pieces come from the same kind of creature.

++ Destruction

+++ Arcing Strike

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Guided Strike, caster level 11th or higher.

You may spend a spell point to make your destructive blast fly in an erratic path, unerringly striking your target no matter what lies between you. Your destructive blast ignore the AC bonus granted to targets by anything less than total cover, and the miss chance granted to targets by anything less than total concealment. Total cover and total concealment provide their normal benefits against your ranged attacks.

//Special:// If you possess the Divination sphere Viewing talent, you can use arcing blast to strike any target that you can see that is within range of both your blast and your divination, as long as it isn’t inside a completely enclosed space (GM’s discretion).

+++ Atmospheric Imbuement

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Weather sphere

Benefit: When using blast talents with the air, electrical, or sonic blast type groups, or any blast type deemed appropriate by the GM, when there is an area of rain and wind both at or above category 4, your destructive blast bypasses spell resistance.

+++ Deadly Targeting

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere

Benefit: The base critical threat range of your destructive blast increases to 19-20.

+++ Destructive Harmonics

Prerequisites: Access to the Destruction and Enhancement spheres.

Benefit: You may spend an additional spell point when using your destructive blast to have it deal +50% damage against creatures that are under the effects of one of your enhancements.

+++ Energy Snake

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Energy Sphere

Benefits: When using the Energy Sphere (blast shape), you may spend 2 spell points instead of 1 to form the energy sphere into a serpent, which grows with every target it consumes. Whenever the energy sphere successfully deals damage to a target, its size increases by 1 5-ft square. When moving the energy sphere each round, its squares may be arranged in any shape desired by the caster, so long as the squares are contiguous.

+++ Energy Specialization

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, 5th caster level or higher

Benefit: Choose one blast type group. Your destructive blasts using blast types from that group gain a +2 insight bonus to caster level.

+++ Fan the Flame

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Fire Blast talent, Nature sphere (fire geomancing), 3rd caster level or higher

Benefit: When a creature is set on fire by your Fire Blast, the fire does not deal 1d6 damage the following round, but rather deals damage equal to the largest fire you may affect. This fire reverts to normal after the first round, dealing 1d6 fire damage on subsequent rounds until extinguished, but you may choose to concentrate each round, or spend a spell point once as a free action, to cause the fire to stay at its increased size until extinguished.

+++ Fear and Flame

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Fire Blast talent

Benefit: When a creature is set on fire by your destructive blast, they must pass a Will save each round they remain on fire or become shaken. If shaken, they become frightened. If frightened, they become panicked. A successful save reduces the severity by one step and ending the on fire condition ends the effects of this feat, though not fear conditions from other sources.

+++ Focused Blast Type Group

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere

Benefit: Choose one blast type group. Treat your caster level as 5 higher for this blast type group. This bonus cannot cause you to have a caster level greater than your HD.

+++ Frozen to the Bone

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, at least one (blast type) Talent that deals cold damage

Benefit: When using a destructive blast shape that allows a Reflex save with a blast type that deals cold damage, you may replace the Reflex save with a Fortitude save.

+++ Heavy Hand

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, at least one (blast type) talent that deals nonlethal damage

Benefit: When using a destructive blast type that deals nonlethal damage, you may instead deal lethal bludgeoning damage, but your die size is reduced one step. Additionally, you gain a +1 insight bonus to attack rolls and save DCs with destructive blasts that deal nonlethal damage.

+++ Imbue with Nature

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Nature sphere (any geomancing)

Benefit: When using a blast type from a blast type category corresponding to a geomancing talent you possess, you may increase the casting time by one step or spend an additional spell point to draw material from the environment to enhance your blast, allowing it to bypass spell resistance.

||~ Geomancing Talent ||~ Blast Type Categories || 
|| Earth Geomancing || Crystal, Stone || 
|| Fire Geomancing || Fire || 
|| Metal Geomancing || Acid || 
|| Plant Geomancing || Plant || 
|| Water Geomancing || Cold || 

Other blast types may be used in conjunction with each geomancing talent as the GM deems appropriate.

+++ Improved Energy Blade

Prerequisites: Energy Blade talent

Benefit: You may activate the Energy Blade talent as a swift action when making a melee or ranged weapon or natural weapon attack, but not a touch attack. The next successful attack deals your destructive blast damage in addition to its normal damage.

+++ Improved Energy Leap

Prerequisites: Energy Leap talent, Explosive Orb Talent

Benefit: When you end your movement when using the Energy Leap Talent, you may choose to also deal your destructive blast damage in a burst centered on your square with a 5 ft radius, + 5 ft per 10 caster levels. Creatures that take damage from your Energy Leap do not suffer additional damage from the burst.

+++ Improved Energy Wall

Prerequisites: Energy Wall talent

Benefit: You may spend an additional spell point when using the Energy Wall blast shape. The wall now grants concealment from creatures on the other side and any non-magical arrows or bolts passing through the wall are destroyed and other non-magical projectiles suffer a -2 penalty to their attack roll.

At caster level 9th the wall can also affect weapons with a +1 enhancement bonus, increasing by +1 for every 3 caster levels thereafter. Unusually massive ranged weapons (such as boulders or ballista bolts) and ranged attacks generated by natural attacks or spell effects are not affected by this ability.

//Special:// If you apply a blast type talent that ignores hardness and deals full damage to objects, such as shattering blast or disintegrate, treat the wall’s caster level as 3 higher for determining the effects of this feat.

+++ Material Infusion

Prerequisites: Metal Geomancing or Creation sphere, Destruction sphere

Benefit: When using a destructive blast that deals bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, you may choose to have the blast count as cold iron or silver. At 15th caster level you may also choose adamantine. If other relevant materials exist in your campaign, the GM may determine at what level this talent applies to them.

+++ Melee Blaster

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Combat Casting

Benefit: When using a destructive blast as (or as part of) a melee attack or melee touch attack, your destructive blast does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

+++ Orb Expert

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Explosive Orb talent

Benefit: Your treat your caster level as 2 higher when determining the range, burst radius, and save DC of the Explosive Orb blast shape. Additionally, you may use this shape without expending a spell point by reducing the diameter of the burst to 5 ft, + 5 ft per 10 caster levels.

+++ Perpetual Sphere

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Energy Sphere talent

Benefits: Whenever you successfully deal damage to a target with your energy sphere, increase its duration by 1 round. You can only extend the sphere’s duration by up to a number of rounds equal to your caster level.

+++ Reach Blade

Prerequisites: Destructive Blade class feature

Benefit: Your Destructive Blade may be shaped with the reach property. This property can be added or removed each time you shape the blade.

+++ Rebuff, Improved

Prerequisites: Rebuff talent

Benefit: Whenever a creature within range is the target of a ranged attack, you may spend a spell point as an immediate action to target the projectile with a destructive blast. Make an opposed attack roll using your caster level in place of your base attack bonus to destroy the projectile and negate the attack. Unusually massive projectiles (such as boulders or ballista bolts) and ranged attacks generated by natural attacks or spell effects are not affected by this ability.

+++ Rebuff, Superior

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Rebuff, Improved Evasion.

Benefit: When using the Rebuff talent to provide cover to allies, you also grant them the benefits of Improved Evasion.

+++ Soulfire

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, 5th caster level or higher

Benefit: You may accept 2 or more points of Constitution burn as a free action. Doing so grants 1 temporary spell point per 2 points of burn that expires at the end of your turn. Half the damage of any destructive blast these temporary spell points are spent on becomes untyped damage and the blast bypasses spell resistance. The number of spell points granted per 2 points of burn increases by +1 every ten character levels. You cannot use this ability if doing so would reduce your constitution to 0.

+++ Tether Adept

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Energy Tether talent

Benefit: When using the Energy Tether blast shape, instead of targeting a creature, you can anchor it to a solid surface within its range such as a wall or ceiling (but not floor) as a standard action. Once the tether is anchored, you may, as a move action, attempt to move to any other legal square within the tether’s reach (as determined from the anchor point) without provoking an attack of opportunity, regardless of your normal move speed, by making an Acrobatics check and comparing the result to the CMD of each creature adjacent to the start and destination points; success on this check allows you to complete the movement, and failure causes you to fall prone in a square adjacent to the creature whose CMD you failed to beat. This movement can include squares on elevated or recessed surfaces, or even walls. If you have a climb speed, you may even end this movement on a wall or ceiling. You must have a clear path towards the destination (this ability does not allow you to pass through solid obstacles or opponents, though it may allow you to circumvent an enemy if you have a clear path around them within the tether’s reach). You must have a free hand to use this ability. Blast types that carry a spell point cost do not incur that cost when using this feat. The anchoring object receives no damage nor other effects of your destructive blast.^^1^^

^^1^^ OGL reference for Akashic Mysteries as wording from lashing spinnerets veil borrowed.

++ Divination

+++ Practiced Seer

Prerequisite: Divination sphere, one or more (sense) talents or abilities.

Benefit: You may use your magic skill bonus (MSB) or caster level, whichever is higher for the purposes of determining the duration of Divination (sense) talents or abilities.

+++ Tabulated Mind

Prerequisite: Divination sphere, Sphere Focus (Divination).

Benefit: When you concentrate to maintain a divine effect, you are no longer considered flat-footed due to maintaining concentration, and may also take swift or immediate actions during the same action. In addition, as a free action you may spend a spell point to reduce the concentration action for divine effect by 1 step for 1 round per caster level, thus reducing a normally full-round action into a standard action, and also allowing for additional move actions to be performed. If you also possess the boon Easy Focus, you reduce instead the concentration action from 1 full round action to 1 move action, allowing for additional standard or move actions.

Normal: Concentrating on a divine effect is usually a full-round action, while also preventing any other standard, move, immediate and swift actions, and granting the flat-footed condition.

++ Enhancement

+++ Animated Arsenal

Prerequisites: Animate Object, BAB +1.

Benefit: Whenever you create an animated object out of a weapon, you may change the damage type of one slam attack to either piercing or slashing. If you choose to apply the piercing attack or slashing attack abilities to one of the object’s other slam attacks, you may choose to have it also apply to the slam attack modified through this feat for no additional cost. Finally, the first application of ranged attack only costs 1 CP.

+++ Complex Animations

Prerequisites: Animate Object.

Benefit: You gain an additional creation point whenever you use Animate Object.

+++ Durable Objects

Prerequisites: Animate Object.

Benefit: Whenever you create an animated object, it gains bonus hit points as if it were one size larger. If the animated object already has an effective size of Colossal or greater, it instead gains 30 additional bonus hit points.

+++ Enchanted Animation

Prerequisites: Animate Object, at least one additional talent from any sphere.

Benefit: Whenever you create an animated object, you may spend a spell point to grant it a single use of one of your sphere abilities; if the sphere ability costs spell points to use, you must pay for that cost when granting it. It may use that sphere ability as if you had cast it yourself.

+++ Mounted Magician

Prerequisites: Casting class feature, Enhancement sphere, Handle Animal 3 ranks, Ride 3 ranks.

Benefit: When targeting yourself with an enhancement, your mount also gains the benefits of that enhancement. This lasts as long as you are both enhanced and mounted. If you dismount or are unseated, your mount loses the benefit of your enhancement.

+++ Mutagenic Enhancements

Prerequisites: Access to the Alteration sphere, at least one (enhance) talent.

Benefit: Whenever you enhance a creature, you may also give them a trait of your choice, just as if you had used shapeshift on them. Doing so makes the enhancement into a polymorph effect. A creature may only be under the effects of one enhancement modified in this way; however, the trait they gained does not count towards the limit for your shapeshift.

+++ Object Familiar

Prerequisites: Ability to acquire a new familiar, Animate Object.

Benefit: When choosing a new familiar, you may select a Tiny animated object in place of a normal creature. An object familiar’s type does not change, and it does not gain the ability to speak to other creatures of its kind.

Special: You may apply the benefits of any feats that improve your use of Animate Object to your object familiar. If you later take Improved Familiar, you may select a Small animated object at 5th caster level instead.

+++ Reforge Object

Prerequisites: Animate Object, Potent Alteration.

Benefit: You do not need to spend an additional spell point when altering an Animated Object you’ve created. In addition, you may freely re-assign a creation point when altering an Animated Object in a way that affects its material or shape.

+++ Tactical Animation

Prerequisites: Animate Object.

Benefit: Whenever you create an animated object, you may grant it a single Teamwork feat it qualifies for as a bonus feat. You may spend an additional spell point when using Animate Object to grant the object an additional bonus Teamwork feat it qualifies for.

Normal: Animated Objects are mindless, and do not possess any feats.

++ Fate



++ Illusion

+++ Solid Illusions

Prerequisites: Access to the Enhancement sphere, Illusionary Touch.

Benefit: You may enhance illusions you create as if they were actually the creatures and objects they appear to be. Parts of the illusion can be enhanced separately - you could use enhance equipment to grant an illusionary soldier an enhancement bonus to attack and damage rolls with its non-existent spear.

+++ Tactile Illusion

Prerequisites: Illusion Sphere, Telekinesis Sphere, Illusory Touch (twice), Finesse

Benefit: By weaving your illusions together with a hint of telekinetic force you can allow them to exert force more appropriate to their apparent nature. Your illusions can support weight or block movement of creatures or objects so long as all pressure and weight on it falls within the size limit of your telekinesis. However, anyone who disbelieves the illusion may choose to ignore the telekinetic effect, moving through the illusion as normal, as well as allowing them throw or move items through it.

In addition, you may deal lethal damage with your illusions instead of nonlethal damage.

++ Life



++ Light

+++ Defiant Radiance

Prerequisites: Light sphere.

Benefit: You add +2 to your MSB and MSD for the purposes of Light sphere effects. Double this bonus when making an opposed magic skill check against magical darkness effects.

+++ Photosynthesis

Prerequisites: Con 13, Survival 3 ranks, Light Sphere.

Benefit: After a long period of meditation, you have learned how to harness the power of light. If are in an area of bright light, you can regain hit points equal to your character level as a move action. This ability can only be used once per minute, and can only heal you up to half your normal maximum hit points; any excess healing is lost.

In addition, so long as you spend at least one full hour in an area of bright light you gain all the nourishment you need, and do not need to eat or drink that day.

The benefits of this feat are a supernatural ability.

+++ Searing Brilliance

Prerequisites: Caster level 5th, Light sphere, Searing Light.

Benefit: Your Searing Light now deals 1 point of untyped damage per caster level per round in addition to its fire damage. Undead, oozes, and creatures harmed by daylight take 2 additional points of untyped damage per caster level per round instead.

+++ Sense Light

Prerequisites: Perception 5 ranks, Light Sphere.

Benefit: Through intense rituals and training you have become capable of sensing light by touch. By spending a swift action, you retain your normal visual abilities for a round when your eyes are closed, and are immune to the effects of the blinded and dazzled conditions, and all gaze attacks. You do not, however, retain the benefits of sight-based abilities (such as darkvision or low-light vision). You must be in area of dim or brighter light to gain the benefits of this feat.

The benefit of this feat is a supernatural ability.

+++ Shining Stars

Prerequisites: Light sphere, Dancing Lights, Glory.

Benefit: You may apply the effects of your Glory talent to glow effects you create as Dancing Lights as if they were placed on yourself, though you may still only apply the effects of Glory to a single glow at a time.

++ Mind

+++ Backdoor Control

Prerequisites: Bestow Intelligence, Expanded Charm

Benefit: Whenever you use a charm against a creature or object you used Bestow Intelligence on, requests you make that would normally be against their nature are instead treated as things they wouldn’t normally do. This increased control extends to creatures you create through Bestow Life or Give Magic Life.

++ Nature

+++ Alloy Creation

Prerequisites: Creation Sphere, Metal Geomancing.

Benefit: When using your Creation sphere abilities, you may create and alter objects made from metals you can summon with your recover ore Nature sphere ability, even if you do not possess the Expanded Materials Creation talent. While this does not increase your actual recover ore size, geomancing powers dependent on your recover ore size such as magnetize or heat metal treat your recover ore size as being twice what it normally is when determining how much metal they can affect at one time.

+++ Alloy Enhancement

Prerequisites: Enhancement Sphere, Metal Geomancing.

Benefit: Whenever you use a metal geomancing ability which creates or affects metal (such as recover ore) you may choose to enhance the metal via the enhancement sphere as part of the same action. This costs 1 additional spell point, in addition to any spell points required by the enhancement in question.

+++ Alloy Telekinesis

Prerequisite: Telekinesis Sphere, Metal Geomancing.

Benefit: Whenever you use the metal geomancing recover ore ability, you may use telekinesis to bludgeon another target creature or object with the metal ore recovered in this way, all in the same action. If you increase the casting time by 1 step (usually from a standard to full-round action), you may utilize your caster level instead of your base attack bonus for the first attack roll, and add your casting ability modifier to damage.

+++ Coastal Infusion

Prerequisites: Nature Sphere, Earth Geomancing and Water Geomancing.

Benefit: When using either earth geomancing or water geomancing within 30 ft of both land and a substantial body of water, you gain a +2 bonus to your caster level for those geomancing abilities.

+++ Fertilize Nature

Prerequisite: Nature Sphere, Earth Geomancing and Plantlife Geomancing.

Benefit: Earth and Plantlife Geomancing lasts 2 additional rounds after you end concentration.

+++ Formulae Geomancing

Prerequisite: Nature Sphere, four or more geomancing packages.

Benefit: You may read and use an alchemist’s formulae book, creating extracts for use during the day as an alchemist does. You must spend have a caster level with the entire Nature sphere equal to 3x the level of the extract, and must spend 1 spell point per level of the created extract, and only you can drink the extract to gain its effects.

+++ Smolder Resin

Prerequisite: Nature Sphere, Fire Geomancing and Plantlife Geomancing.

Benefit: Your pummel geomancing ability deals additional Fire damage equal to your casting ability modifier with each hit that successfully deals damage.

+++ Steam Geomancing

Prerequisite: Nature Sphere, Fire Geomancing and Water Geomancing.

Benefit: When using any Nature sphere ability that deals Fire or Cold damage, you may spend 1 additional spell point to split the damage in half, dealing half Fire damage and half Cold damage.

++ Protection



++ Telekinesis

+++ Extradimensional Assembly

Prerequisites: Telekinesis Sphere, Warp Sphere, Extradimensional Storage, Whirlwind Assembly

Benefit: When you use your Whirlwind Assembly talent you may access and swap items in and out of your Extradimensional Storage freely, without the need to use a second action or spend a spell point.

+++ Floating Panoply

Prerequisites: Caster level 7th, Enhancing Telekinesis, Divided Mind, Mass Enhancement

Benefit: When you use the Enhancing Telekinesis feat, you may spend a spell point to enhance every item you lift with Divided Mind, following the restrictions of Mass Enhancement.

+++ Kinetic Creation

Prerequisites: Caster level 7th, Creation Sphere, Telekinesis Sphere

Benefit: You can create items out of telekinetic force instead of matter. Objects made this way cannot incorporate any other materials and must be simple in construction, lacking intricate details or complex moving parts. This ‘material’ has hardness 10 and 3 hit points per inch, but at the end of each round its hit points are fully replenished. Unlike other created objects, objects of telekinetic force are magical and can be dispelled, which also destroys them.

//Special:// Telekinetic force made with the Create Materials advanced talent reforms itself over the course of an hour if destroyed or dispelled.

+++ Mind Against Body

Prerequisites: Telekinesis Sphere, Telekinetic Maneuver

Benefit: Rather than using your body to fight off more capable opponents, you employ your mind, fighting back with your full telekinetic power. You may substitute 10 + your caster level + your casting ability modifier for your CMD when you are defending against a combat maneuver.

+++ Skillful Force

Prerequisites: Telekinesis Sphere, Finesse, Telekinetic Tools

Benefit: When using your telekinesis to perform skill checks as described in Finesse you do not suffer the normal -5 skill check penalty. In addition, tools you mimic with Telekinetic Tools are effectively masterwork and grant a +2 circumstance bonus on related checks.

++ Time



++ War



++ Warp

+++ Warp Burst

Prerequisites: Destruction sphere, Explosive Orb talent, Warp sphere

Benefit: When teleporting yourself, you may increase the casting time by one step and spend a spell point to target your destination square with a destructive blast with the explosive orb blast shape, paying additional costs for the blast as normal. You must have line of sight and line of effect to the target square unless you possess the Unseeing Teleport talent. You may exclude your destination square from this effect.

++ Weather
