title:Guardian Path Abilities
[[toc]]

The following are new path abilities that can be selected by heroes following the path of the Guardian.

----

++ ##000000|1st-Tier Abilities##

++++ Analytical Eye
When a creature you can see makes an attack, you can spend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to analyze its fighting style and capabilities. You learn all combat feats (including mythic versions of combat feats) that creature possesses, even if it did not use some of those feats in its attack. You gain an insight bonus equal to one-half your tier (minimum +1) to AC against that opponent until the end of your next turn. If you use the aid another action, your ally adds this insight bonus to the bonus they gain to their AC or on their next attack roll against that opponent.

++++ Chargebreaker (Ex)
Whenever you hit with a melee attack against a creature that has charged since the beginning of your last turn, you deal additional damage equal to your mythic tier. You deal an additional 1d6 points of damage if you hit a charging creature with a readied action or attack of opportunity while the creature is charging. This damage is not multiplied on a critical hit, but it is doubled if you are using a weapon with the brace quality to ready an attack. Alternatively, you may forgo dealing this additional damage and make a combat maneuver check to stop the movement of a charging creature, as if you had the Stand Still feat, or you may expend one use of your mythic power to make a combat maneuver check to bull rush or trip a charging creature, with a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier. This does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

++++ Eyes on the Skies (Ex and Sp)
You immediately become aware of any Medium or larger flying creature within 100 feet times your mythic tier as long as you have line of effect; you do not need line of sight. If you expend one use of your mythic power as a swift action or move action, you can locate flying creatures as if using locate creature as a spell-like ability, treating your mythic tier as your caster level. You do not need to specify the type of creature you are locating (though you may specify the size of creature you wish to detect, or even a minimum size, detecting all creatures that size or larger); as long as creatures are flying they can be detected. You can pinpoint the location of flying creatures within 20 feet plus 10 feet times your mythic tier as if you had blindsense, and you gain the uncanny dodge ability against attacks made by flying creatures whose location you know.

++++ Guarded Flanks (Ex)
You gain the ability to dance deftly in between foes surrounding you, gaining a dodge bonus to your Armor Class equal to one-half your mythic tier (minimum +1) against enemies that flank you. If a creature flanking you attacks you and misses, you gain this bonus on your next attack roll against that creature.

++++ Instantaneous Armamentarium (Ex and Su)
You are never at a loss for protection. You can draw or ready a shield or pick up a shield or weapon from the ground as a free or immediate action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and you can put on or take off a suit of armor of any kind as a move action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. If a suit of armor or shield that you have had on your person for at least 24 hours are not adjacent to you, you can expend one use of your mythic power as a standard action to summon them onto your person from a distance of up to 30 feet times your mythic tier, or as an immediate action by expending two uses of your mythic power. Alternatively, you can expend two uses of your mythic power as a standard action to summon your armor and shield from any distance as long as you are on the same plane. You cannot summon your armor or shield if they are being worn or wielded by another creature.

++++ Pike Chopper (Ex)
When you are attacked with a reach weapon or any weapon in the spears or polearms weapon groups (as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Combat), or by any manufactured weapon wielded by a creature with reach greater than 5 feet, you can use an attack of opportunity or an immediate action to attempt a combat maneuver check to sunder that reach weapon. The sunder maneuver occurs simultaneously with the attack against you; the attack may harm you even if you destroy the attacking weapon, and you may sunder the weapon even if you are killed or incapacitated by the attack. If you spend one use of your mythic power as an immediate action, you can use this ability until the end of your next turn against any manufactured weapon. This ability has no effect on natural weapons or weapons with natural reach, except for the heads of a hydra or other creature whose natural weapons can be sundered in a similar fashion.

++++ Terrible Courage (Ex)
You gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on your saving throws against fear effects and to the DC to Intimidate you. If a fear effect normally has a partial effect on a successful save, it has no effect on you. Even if you fail your save or no save is allowed, the duration of the effect is halved (minimum 1 round).

If you successfully save against a fear effect, you may spend one use of your mythic power to affect the creature that created the fear effect with its own fear effect. That creature may attempt to resist the fear effect with a saving throw or spell resistance if that is normally allowed. If the creature that created the fear effect is immune to fear, it is unaffected if it is a mythic creature; however, a non-mythic creature’s immunity to fear does not apply against this ability.

----

++ ##000000|3rd-Tier Abilities##

++++ Battlemagic Sense (Su)
You have an intuitive sense for friendly and hostile magics being thrown around a battlefield. You gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on Spellcraft checks to identify spells, including both ongoing spell effects and spells as they are being cast, and you may make such checks untrained.

If you expend one use of your mythic power as a swift or immediate action, you can treat your base attack bonus as the number of ranks you have in the Spellcraft skill for 1 minute. You are automatically aware when a spell with a range greater than personal or touch is cast within 20 feet plus 10 feet times your mythic tier, and you can make a Spellcraft to identify such spells, though you take a -4 penalty on your check if you have no line of sight to the caster or are otherwise unaware of the caster’s presence. If you successfully identify a spell while forcing the caster to make a concentration check, whether to cast defensively because you threaten the target or by harming or distracting the caster in any way, you add your mythic tier to the DC of the concentration check for that spell. If you successfully identify a spell being cast and you have the ability to cast an appropriate counterspell (including dispel magic), you can expend one use of your mythic power to perform that counterspell as an immediate action, even if you do not have line of sight to the caster. If you have readied an action to counterspell, you gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on any caster level check required.

++++ Blade of Reason (Ex)
When you successfully identify a creature with a Knowledge check, attacks you make against that creature are treated as if you were wielding a weapon with the bane property against that opponent for a number of rounds equal to one-half your mythic tier. If you expend one use of your mythic power when using this ability, this bane property applies against all creatures of the same type (and subtype, if applicable) as the creature you identified. You must have the knowledgeable guardian path ability as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures in order to select this ability.

++++ Layered Armor (Ex)
You can wear a suit of light armor underneath a suit of medium or heavy armor. The armor bonus and enhancement bonus of such armors do not stack, nor do their armor check penalties. However, you do add one-half the light armor’s combined armor bonus and enhancement bonus as an untyped bonus to your Armor Class against attack rolls to confirm a critical hit. In addition, if the suit of light armor is magical you can use any of its special abilities other than glamered, shadow, and slick. An effect that damages or destroys your armor affects only the outer suit of armor, unless it is an effect that specifically allows the ability to damage you after destroying your armor, such as the Greater Sunder feat, in which case that damage applies to your inner suit of armor first and affects you directly only if both suits of armor are destroyed.

++++ Mythic Rider (Ex)
If any effect would make you fall from the back of your mount or cause your mount to fall or become prone, you can spend one use of your mythic power as a free action to remain mounted or for your mount to remain standing (unless your mount is killed or knocked unconscious). In addition, you can spend one use of your mythic power attuning yourself to your mount. For the next 24 hours, your mount gains the hard to kill, recuperation, and mythic saves abilities as a creature whose mythic tier was 2 tiers lower than yours. If you have the unstoppable ability and use it on yourself while mounted, you may remove one of the listed effects from your mount at the same time; this may be a different effect from the one affecting you.

++++ Parting Shot (Ex)
If you are killed or incapacitated, including being petrified, paralyzed, disintegrated, knocked unconscious, or otherwise made helpless and unable to take actions, you can make one attack at your highest attack bonus for every three mythic tiers before becoming helpless. You may direct these attacks against any creatures you threaten, but each creature may be attacked only once. If you do not threaten any creature, you may instead make a single ranged attack (which does not provoke attacks of opportunity) against a target within 30 feet, provided you are wielding a ranged weapon, including a thrown weapon or even an improvised weapon. If you spend one use of your mythic power, these attacks ignore miss chance due to concealment. Any attacks you make with this ability are considered simultaneous with the action that kills or incapacitates you; killing or incapacitating your attacker does not prevent you from being killed or incapacitated.

++++ Reflexive Retaliation (Ex)
You strike back unerringly and without thought against foes that land a telling blow against you. Whenever you take 10 or more points of damage from a single melee attack made by a foe within your reach, as an immediate action you can strike your attacker a glancing blow dealing 1d6 points of damage; you automatically hit your attacker without requiring an attack roll. Damage reduction applies against the damage you deal with this ability, but if you are wielding a weapon you can apply that weapon’s characteristics for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. If you expend one use of your mythic power when making this attack, you add your mythic tier to the damage dealt and you ignore the target’s damage reduction for the purpose of this ability until the beginning of your next turn. You must have the retributive reach path ability as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures in order to select this ability.

++++ Shielded Perimeter (Ex)
As a full-round action, you can move a distance equal to your speed. All allies whose spaces you move through gains a cover bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier to their Armor Class until the beginning of your next turn, and enemies add this number to the DC of Acrobatics checks made to move through these squares without provoking attacks of opportunity. This cover bonus is increased by 1 if you are using a heavy shield and by 2 if you are using a tower shield. If you expend one use of your mythic power, this bonus also applies to your allies’ Reflex saves and CMD and any square though which you have moved is considered difficult terrain for your enemies.

++++ That Trick Doesn’t Work on Me Anymore (Ex)
When you learn a creature’s combat feats using the analytical eye path ability and that creature attacks you, you can select a number of its combat feats equal to one-half your mythic tier as an immediate action, spending one use of mythic power per feat you select. Your attacker gains no benefit from using those feats against you for the next 24 hours, though it may use them against other creatures and still takes any penalties associated with using those feats. If negating the benefits of these feats results in your opponent provoking an attack of opportunity from you, such as negating the Improved Trip feat, you gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier to your attack roll on your attack of opportunity. You must have the analytical eye path ability to select this path ability.

++++ Trick Rider (Ex)
Your mount gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on Acrobatics checks, and your mount can make Acrobatics checks to avoid attacks of opportunity or move through spaces occupied by enemies without reducing its speed. If you make an Acrobatics check while mounted, or as part of mounting or dismounting, you also gain this bonus. If you have the Mounted Combat feat, you can use that feat to make a Ride check and use the result in place of your mount’s CMD, Reflex save, or Acrobatics check.

In addition, by spending one use of your mythic power and spending one hour practicing, you gain one bonus feat for which you qualify, which must be Animal Affinity, Skill Focus (Ride), or a mounted combat feat, or a mythic version of one of those feats if you already have the base feat. You gain this bonus feat for 24 hours or until the next time you use this ability, whichever is less; when you use it to gain a new bonus combat feat, that feat replaces the current one. This bonus feat cannot be used as a prerequisite for any other feat, prestige class, or other purpose.

At 6th tier and above, you can spend two uses of your mythic power to gain a bonus feat with only one minute of practice rather than one hour.

----

++ ##000000|6th-Tier Abilities##

++++ Healing Sink (Ex)
Any conjuration (healing) effect with a variable numeric effect that affects you is maximized, as if the Maximize Spell metamagic feat had been applied to it, though this ability also applies to supernatural and exceptional abilities and magic item effects that heal hit point damage or ability damage. If a healing effect targets multiple creatures, this maximization only affects you. However, if a creature adjacent to you receives a conjuration (healing) effect that would cure more hit point damage than the creature has, if you are at less than full hit points you heal damage equal to one-half of any unused curing beyond the amount required to bring the adjacent creature to full hit points. This leftover healing is not maximized.

++++ Skyshield (Ex and Su)
You always keep your shield readied against attacks from above. When wielding a heavy shield or tower shield, you gain cover (+4 bonus to AC, +2 bonus to Reflex saves) against attacks made from above. This includes attacks made by flying creatures or creatures on higher ground, dropped objects, and indirect fire from siege weapons. You gain half the above cover bonuses if wielding a light shield and one-fourth the above cover bonus when wielding a buckler. You must be aware of a creature to gain this bonus but it does not require an action.

In addition, when wielding any kind of shield you can expend one use of your mythic power as a standard action to create a horizontal //wall of force// (treating your mythic tier as your caster level for all purposes other than its area) that hovers 5 feet over your head and moves with you. The //wall of force// is circular, covering the space you occupy, though if you wish you can extend its radius up to 5 feet beyond your space per 2 mythic tiers. Reducing or expanding its radius after it is created is a move action., The wall cannot be forced into a space too small for it, nor forced through an opponent’s space (though it moves with you if you pass through a creature’s space using Acrobatics, an overrun combat maneuver, or a similar action and does not harm creatures or objects in your path). This //wall of force// lasts a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier, and you must hold your shield arm overhead to maintain it, forfeiting your shield bonus to AC against opponents that are not overhead. You can end the wall of force at any time by voluntarily dropping your shield arm, but if you are incapacitated or killed the wall of force remains hovering over your body until its duration expires. This is a supernatural effect.

++++ To the Last Breath (Ex)
You remain clear-headed and able to function even while hovering on death’s door. You don’t die until your negative hit points equal your Constitution score multiplied by one-half your mythic tier. When at or below 0 hit points, you do not lose 1 hit point per round and gain immunity to bleed or blood drain attacks, energy drain, death effects, emotion effects, and effects with the pain descriptor, and you cannot become nauseated, sickened, staggered, or stunned. You must have the To the Death 3rd-tier guardian mythic path ability to select this ability.
