title:Hierophant Path Abilities
parent:mythic-rules
[[toc]]

The following are new path abilities that can be selected by heroes following the path of the Hierophant.

----

++ ##000000|1st-Tier Abilities##

++++ Adaptive Energy Resistance (Su)
If you have energy resistance against acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic damage and you are attacked by one of these energy types other than the one(s) to which you have resistance, you can spend one use of your mythic power as an immediate action to switch your energy resistance to that type of energy for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier.

++++ Cultivate Potion Plant (Su)
You gain the ability to craft potions of divine spells you know as if you had the Brew Potion feat. However, you do not compound your potions in a laboratory. Instead, you infuse your spells during the item creation process into a living edible plant or edible portion of a plant, such as fruit, root, nut, or flower. These potion plants function identically to normal potions, but the DC to identify them with Spellcraft is increased by 5.

Whenever you make a Spellcraft check against the potion plant’s craft DC, you must also make a Profession (herbalist) check against the same DC; a failed Profession (herbalist) check has the same effect as a failed Spellcraft.

In addition to simply cultivating ordinary potion plants, however, you can use herbal tinctures and organic compounds to increase the potency and variety of potions you create. You can increase the maximum spell level of potions you can create by 1 for every 3 mythic tiers, up to 6th level, including spells enhanced with metamagic feats with an adjusted level no greater than 6th. The cost of these potion plants is equal to the level of the spell times its caster level x 25 gp. However, these enhanced potion plants decay rapidly if they are not within 5 feet of their creator, reducing their caster level by 1 per minute. When a potion plant’s caster level reaches 0, it is destroyed. Even if they remain within 5 feet, they begin to lose their efficacy after a number of days equal to your mythic tier, losing 1 caster level per day thereafter.

Finally, you can attempt to cultivate additional potion plants, expending one potion plant that you have already created in attempt to propagate more potion plants of the same type. This requires spending 1 hour per day tending the plant for 1 day (0-level or 1st-level potion), 1 week (2nd-level potion), or 1 month (3rd-level potion); you cannot breed potion plants with a spell level above 3rd. This process takes 10 gp worth of materials per day, but at the end of the cultivation period you can harvest 1d4-1 potion plants that are identical in effect to the original (though their caster level is always the minimum possible). You can cultivate a number of potion plants equal to one-half your mythic tier at one time, each requiring one hour of tending per day.

++++ Elder Signs (Su)
You have learned the four secret signs for dealing with alien things from beyond. The elder signs may be passes made with the hand and fingers or may be engraved onto solid surfaces in the form and path of the great sign. Performing one of the elder signs requires a move action and can be done as often as desired; their effects last until the end of your turn. The four elder signs are as follows:

* //The Sign of Revealing (Vuur):// Made with forefinger and small finger extended and the other fingers flexed to touch the palm, the sign of revealing allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to caster level checks and Knowledge or Spellcraft checks made when using divinations to learn about creatures, objects, or effects related to the mythos, including spells and creatures with the mythos subtype. You may also add one-half your mythic tier to caster level checks to dispel illusions created by a mythos creature or a divine spellcaster that worships a mythos deity. If you make the sign of revealing when attacking a mythos creature with concealment or a creature that has concealment due to a mythos effect, you may roll twice and select the better result when attempting to overcome the target’s miss chance due to concealment.

* //The Sign of Opening (Kesh):// Made with the thumb and middle finger extended and the other fingers flexed to the palm, the sign of opening allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to your caster level when casting a calling, summoning, or teleportation effect that brings a creature with the mythos subtype or that facilitates travel to a location connected to the mythos.

* //The Sign of Sealing (Qoth):// Made with four fingers extended and the thumb bent at an angle across the palm, the sign of sealing allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to your caster level when creating an effect that blocks teleportation, summoning, and extradimensional travel or when engraving a magical glyph or symbol upon a stone object at least 5 feet square. You add your mythic tier to the hardness and break DC of the stone object upon which the sign is engraved, though these increases apply only against attacks by creatures with the mythos subtype or spells with the mythos descriptor.

* //The Sign of Banishment (Ylld):// Made with three fingers extended and the thumb and small finger joined across the palm, the sign of banishment allows you to add one-half your mythic tier to your caster level when creating an effect that would banish, dismiss, dispel, or teleport away any creature with the mythos subtype or to dispel or remove any effect that it has created. When you make the sign of banishment, creatures with the mythos subtype take a -2 penalty to saves against the effects listed above, as well as fear effects you create.

++++ Spontaneous Deathbringer (Ex)
Choose a number of divine spells of the necromancy school equal to your mythic tier. You can now cast these spells spontaneously, sacrificing a prepared spell of equal or higher level. You can also expend uses of your mythic power to cast the mythic versions of these spells, including augmented versions. You must have the ability to spontaneously cast inflict wounds spells or to channel negative energy to select this path ability.

++++ Spontaneous Lifegiver (Ex)
Choose a number of divine spells of the conjuration (healing) subschool equal to your mythic tier. You can now cast these spells spontaneously, sacrificing a prepared spell of equal or higher level. You can also expend uses of your mythic power to cast the mythic versions of these spells, including augmented versions. You must have the ability to spontaneously cast cure wounds spells or to channel positive energy to select this path ability.

++++ Treesinger (Su)
You add command plants, control plants, plant growth, and speak with plants to your list of spells known. If they are already on your spell list, you add your mythic tier to your caster level when casting those spells and may expend uses of your mythic power to cast their mythic or augmented versions.

If you expend one use of mythic power, you can entrance plant creatures in a manner similar to the enthrall spell, though it affects only plants and is a supernatural effect; the save DC is equal to 10 + 1/2 your character level + your mythic tier + your Charisma modifier.

In addition to the above, your song fills plants with vigor and health. For every 10 minutes you sing, all plant creatures and inanimate plants within a radius of 5 feet times your mythic tier are healed of hit point damage equal to your mythic tier and 1 point of ability damage. Wooden objects that are not living plants are unaffected. If a plant is diseased, your song acts as remove disease, adding your mythic tier to your caster level.

You can also undo magical effects that alter or manipulate plants or wooden objects. This functions like dispel magic (adding your mythic tier to your caster level) but requires 10 minutes to activate and can reverse instantaneous effects, such as blight or warp wood. If you expend one use of your mythic power, you can use this ability as a full-round action to negate or reverse such an effect, or as an immediate action if you expend two uses of your mythic power; however, in this case you may affect only mythic spells whose level is lower than your mythic tier or non-mythic spells whose level is lower than twice your mythic tier.

----

++ ##000000|3rd-Tier Abilities##

++++ Blessing of the Saint (Ex)
You add the following spells to your list of spells known and can spontaneously cast them by sacrificing a prepared spell of equal or greater level, as well as spending mythic power to cast their mythic or augmented versions: //bestow grace//, //bless//, //blood of the martyr//, //divine transfer//, //divine vessel//, //martyr’s bargain//, //prayer//, and //weapon of awe//. Your bestow grace spell can affect a target of any alignment, as long as they share your religion. If these spells are already on your class list, you add your mythic tier to your caster level when casting them.

++++ Budding Branch (Ex)
You gain the ability to craft wands of divine spells you can cast as if you had the Craft Wand feat. However, rather than crafting a wand in a laboratory or tower you must have access to a living tree, and as part of the crafting process you must cast plant growth on the tree a number of times per day equal to the level of the spell contained within the wand. A casting of mythic plant growth counts as two castings of plant growth for this purpose. Whenever you make a Spellcraft check against the item’s craft DC, you must also make a Profession (herbalist) check against the same DC; a failed Profession (herbalist) check has the same effect as a failed Spellcraft check. The plant’s growth is unpredictable; hence, you make 3d6 x 100 gp worth of the item’s cost in progress for each day of crafting.

At 6th tier and above, you can use this ability to craft magical staffs of divine spells you can cast as if you had the Craft Staff feat. This functions as described above for creating a magical wand, but the number of plant growth spells required each day is equal to the highest-level spell contained within the staff.

In addition to the above, if you are not a druid, you add //spellstaff// as a 5th-level spell and //changestaff// as a 7th-level spell to your spell lists. If you are a druid, you add your mythic level to your caster level when casting these spells.

++++ Treeshaper (Su/Sp)
You can use your treesinger path ability to cause trees to grow rapidly. This functions as //plant growth// but requires you to sing for 10 minutes and affects an area with a radius of 5 feet times your mythic tier (100 feet times your mythic tier if using the enrichment version of the spell); you may reduce this time to a full-round action by expending one use of your mythic power. You may instead cause a single tree to grow rapidly. This functions similarly to a feather token (tree) but the tree grows at a rate of 1 foot per round that you continue to sing; if you expend one use of mythic power, it grows at a rate of 10 feet per round until it reaches its maximum height of 60 feet.

In addition to affecting the growth of ordinary trees, you can expend one use of your mythic power to increase or decrease the size of a plant creature. This is a spell-like ability that functions identically to enlarge person or reduce person but affects only plant creatures. You can expend additional uses of mythic power to duplicate the mythic or augmented versions of these spells.

At 6th tier and above, you can instead expend two uses of mythic power to duplicate the effect of //animal growth//, //mass enlarge person//, or //mass reduce person// to increase or decrease the size of a plant creature. You can expend additional uses of mythic power to duplicate the mythic or augmented versions of these spells.

Finally, you can use your treesinging to repair objects made of wood, even if they are not living plants, and you also can use it to create objects out of living trees, causing the desired object to shape itself out of the tree’s existing mass, as if using wood shape.

At 6th tier and above, you can duplicate the effect of //fabricate//. You add your mythic tier on Craft checks made to form wooden items. If you expend one use of your mythic power, a wooden item you create with this ability is automatically a masterwork item, and if you expend two uses of mythic power, any wooden objects you create with this ability are treated as ironwood. Any spell-like abilities you gain through the use of this power have an effective caster level equal to your caster level plus mythic tier.

You must have the treesinger path ability to select this path ability.

----

++ ##000000|6th-Tier Abilities##

++++ High Clerist (Ex)
You are acknowledged as a great leader within your religion and even by those outside your faith. You add one-half your mythic tier on Diplomacy checks and gain Leadership as a bonus feat. If you already have the Leadership feat, you gain Mythic Leadership as a bonus feat. If you build a shrine, temple, monastery, cathedral, or monument devoted to your deity, offerings from fellow believers cover one-half the cost of construction, whether you are constructing them with your own personal funds or using the kingdom-building rules described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Campaign or Ultimate Rulership from Legendary Games. At the GM’s option, you may also obtain this discount when building other types of buildings, such as a park, graveyard, or castle, if they are connected to a religious edifice.

In addition to the above, you gain the power to call for a crusade, declaring a specific goal (typically a military goal of some kind related to the faith) that you wish to achieve and summoning the ranks of the faithful to help you accomplish that goal. Calling a crusade requires spending a number of uses of mythic power equal to your mythic tier, and it enables you to multiply the number of followers you gain by an amount equal to your mythic tier. These followers arrive over the course of one month and serve without pay for as long as you keep the crusade going. For as long as the crusade lasts, the uses of mythic power you spent to call the crusade are unavailable to you. However, during the crusade all of your followers gain a morale bonus equal to one-half your tier on attack rolls and on saving throws against mind-affecting effects and effects that would cause them to become fatigued or exhausted (as well as Constitution checks to avoid damage or fatigue from a forced march).

If using the mass combat rules in Ultimate Battle from Legendary Games, you can recruit armies using your followers.

Those armies have only half the normal maintenance cost (as they must still be fed) and gain a bonus to their OM and Morale equal to one-half your mythic tier.

You may call off the crusade at any time, at which point your additional followers depart.

++++ Saintly Shroud (Su)
You are suffused with an aura of sacred (if good) or profane (if evil) power; a neutral character must choose which type to gain. You gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier on Intimidate checks against creatures with an alignment subtype that is opposed to your alignment, even if they share one alignment subtype in common (e.g., if you are chaotic good and use Intimidate against a demon, which has both the chaotic and evil subtypes). You gain the same bonus on saving throws against fear and charm effects used by such creatures, or effects with an alignment descriptor that opposes yours.

If a non-mythic creature whose alignment subtype is opposed to yours touches you, including striking you with a natural weapon or melee touch attack, it takes damage equal to your mythic tier every time it strikes you; a mythic creature takes this damage only the first time each round that it strikes you. If you touch such a creature to deliver a melee touch effect, once per round you may choose to deal this damage to the target in addition to any other effect you deliver with that touch.

If you expend one use of your mythic power as a free or immediate action, you gain DR 5/chaotic, DR 5/evil, DR 5/good, or DR 5/lawful for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier. The type of DR you gain must match an alignment subtype opposed to yours.
