title:Marshal Path Abilities
[[toc]]

The following are new path abilities that can be selected by heroes following the path of the Marshal.

----

++ ##000000|1st-Tier Abilities##

++++ Banner Bearer (Su)
You can hand your personal banner to an ally as a move action. As long as that creature holds your banner in one hand, it gains the benefits of inspire courage as if used by a bard whose level was equal to your character level plus your mythic tier. If you are at least 3rd tier and expend one use of your mythic power when delivering your banner, your ally also gains the benefit of inspire greatness. If you are at least 6th tier and expend two uses of mythic power, your ally also gains the benefit of inspire heroics. The benefits you provide last a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier, but they are also lost if the banner is destroyed or if your ally ends its turn without the banner in hand. You must have the inspire courage or banner class feature to select this ability.

++++ Expert Aid (Ex)
You can use the aid another action to assist any creature you threaten, including using reach provided by a reach weapon. You need not be adjacent to a creature or threaten a creature they attack or that attacks them. In addition, the bonus you provide with the aid another action is increased by one-half your mythic tier (minimum 1), and you may add your mythic tier to any attack roll made as part of the aid another action. You can expend a mythic surge as part of the aid another action; your ally gains the benefit of that surge instead of you (even if your ally is non-mythic) and can use it at any point before the end of its next turn.

++++ Hold the Line (Ex)
When an enemy attempts an awesome blow, bull rush, drag, overrun, reposition, or trip combat maneuver against you or an ally within 30 feet, as an immediate action you can grant yourself or that ally a bonus to CMD equal to one-half your mythic tier against that maneuver. If you use this ability on an ally adjacent to you, you grant a bonus equal to your tier. This bonus also applies on Reflex saves made against an engulf or trample special attack.

++++ Inspiring Word (Su)
This ability functions as the resurging words path ability, but it affects only a single target and it can be activated as a swift, move, or standard action. You cannot use this ability on yourself. When an ally uses the total defense or withdraw action or receives the benefit of an aid another action, you can use this ability on that ally as an immediate action without expending mythic power.

++++ Teamwork Feat Mastery (Ex)
By spending one use of your mythic power and spending one hour practicing, you gain one bonus teamwork feat for which you qualify. You gain this bonus feat for 24 hours or until the next time you use this ability; when you use it to gain a new bonus teamwork feat, that feat replaces the current one. This bonus feat cannot be used as a prerequisite for any other feat, prestige class, or other purpose.

At 4th tier and above, you can use this path ability to gain a number of teamwork feats equal to one-half your mythic tier. Each feat you gain requires one hour of practice and the expenditure of one use of mythic power. You may use feats you gain with this path ability as prerequisites for other feats you gain with this path ability, but not for any other purpose.

At 6th tier and above, you can spend two uses of your mythic power to gain a teamwork feat with only one minute of practice rather than one hour.

++++ Unbroken Will (Ex)
If you are affected by a mind-affecting effect or an Intimidate check, you are filled with a resurgent fury, gaining a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls and saving throws until the end of your next turn. If the effect affecting you normally results in a penalty on attack rolls or saving throws, those penalties are suppressed until the end of your next turn. In addition, if you attack the creature that affected you with a mind-affecting effect or Intimidate check, your opponent is flat-footed against any attacks you make until the end of your next turn if it is a non-mythic creature. A mythic creature can avoid being flat-footed against your attack with a successful Sense Motive check (DC 15 + your Charisma modifier + your mythic tier).

At 4th tier and above, you can spend one use of your mythic power as an immediate action to use this ability on an ally within 30 feet that is affected by a mind-affecting effect or Intimidate check. That ally must be able to see or hear you.

At 8th tier and above, you can spend two uses of your mythic power as an immediate action affect all allies within 30 feet that are affected by a mind-affecting effect or Intimidate check. Your allies must be able to see or hear you.

++++ War Mind (Ex)
You add your mythic tier to the duration of your tactician ability, and you add your mythic tier to your class level in the class that grants that ability to determine how many times per day you can use it. In addition, you can share any teamwork feat you possess with your tactician ability, not only those that you selected as bonus feats. If you expend one use of your mythic power when activating your tactician ability, you can share different teamwork feats you possess with each of your allies. Allies affected by this ability treat each other as if they had the teamwork feat you shared for the purpose of gaining the feat’s benefits, though each ally only gains the benefit for the feat you shared with them. You must have the tactician class feature to select this ability.

----

++ ##000000|3rd-Tier Abilities##

++++ Conflicting Orders (Ex/Su)
When an enemy within 30 feet uses a teamwork feat or the aid another action or uses Handle Animal to direct an animal’s actions, as an immediate you can negate the effect of that feat, skill, or aid another action for that enemy and all enemies within 10 feet of it and preventing the use of that feat, skill, or aid another action by those creatures until the end of your next turn. This is automatic if the creature performing the action is a non-mythic creature or its mythic tier or rank does not exceed yours.

In addition, if an enemy within 30 feet issues a command to a called, charmed, dominated, or summoned creature or as part of a compulsion effect, you can expend one use of your mythic power to countermand that order by rolling 1d20 and adding your character level plus your mythic tier; this check is opposed by a caster level check by your enemy. If your check equals or exceeds theirs, the creatures receiving the order to take no actions for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier. If your enemy issues a command to multiple creatures, you can countermand their orders to a number of creatures equal to your mythic tier by expending two uses of your mythic power. This use of the ability is a supernatural mind-affecting effect that can affect undead and mindless creatures if they are called, summoned, or magically controlled.

++++ Deadly Dance (Ex)
You dive into the middle of every battle, with enemies on every hand. If you are attacked by a creature in position to flank you (even if you cannot be flanked), you can use an attack of opportunity to attempt a combat maneuver check to reposition that creature prior to resolving its attack. This maneuver does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and if it succeeds your opponent is flat-footed against you until the end of your next turn. If you have no more attacks of opportunity available, you can expend 1 point of ki or panache or 1 round of rage to attempt this maneuver.

If a creature attacks you while in a flanking position, you can expend one use of your mythic power as an immediate action to attempt a Reflex save with a bonus equal to your mythic tier against a DC equal to the attacker’s attack roll. On a successful save against an attack by a non-mythic creature, you take no damage as the attack instead hits your attacker’s ally with whom it was flanking. On a successful save against an attack by a mythic creature, you and your attacker’s flanking ally each take half damage from the attack, though associated effects from the attack, such as bleed, poison, or spell effects, apply fully to both you and your attacker’s ally.

++++ Friendly Flanking (Ex)
You are considered to be flanking whenever an ally is adjacent to an enemy that is adjacent to you; you need not be on opposite sides of that enemy. You can expend one use of your mythic power as a swift action to share this ability with a number of allies equal to one-half your mythic tier for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier.

++++ Healing Surge (Su)
When you grant temporary hit points or cure hit point damage (including when using the Heal skill) to an ally adjacent to you, you add your mythic surge die to the number of hit points you cure or grant. If you expend one use of your mythic power when using an effect that affects multiple targets or an area, this ability applies to all allies you affect, even if they are not adjacent to you.

In addition, when an injured ally adjacent to you uses a mythic surge, he heals a number of hit points equal to the result of his mythic surge die, up to his maximum hit points. If an ally within 30 feet of you uses a mythic surge, you can expend one use of mythic power as a free action to use this ability on that ally.

++++ Shatter Resistance (Su)
You can focus your mythic power through your attacks to break down your opponent’s resistance to magic. When you hit a creature that has spell resistance, you can expend one use of mythic power as part of the attack to lower the target’s spell resistance by an amount equal to your tier (to a minimum of 0) for 1 minute. Multiple uses of this ability on the same creature do not stack.

++++ Soaring Banner (Su)
Your banner is a symbol of triumph recognized wherever you go. You gain the banner class feature, which functions as if you were a cavalier whose level was equal to your mythic tier (minimum of 5th, regardless of your tier). In addition, if you expend one use of your mythic power, the image of your banner rises high into the sky and can be seen up to 1 mile away per mythic tier you possess, regardless of concealment (though it cannot be seen by creatures with total cover or an opaque solid barrier between themselves and the banner in the sky). If you are a cavalier, you add your mythic tier to your cavalier level to determine the bonuses provided by your banner, and all allies with line of sight to your banner gain these bonuses.

++++ To Me! (Ex)
When you use the charge or withdraw action, you can designate a number of allies equal to one-half your mythic tier to move with you on your turn, up to a maximum distance equal to their speed or your speed (whichever is lower). Your allies must end their movement adjacent to you. Their movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity even if your movement does.

----

++ ##000000|6th-Tier Abilities##

++++ Borrowed Boon (Ex/Su)
Whenever you grant a competence or morale bonus to an ally, you gain the same bonus your ally gains for the same duration. When you create any other beneficial effect that affects one or more of your allies but not you, you can expend one use of mythic power to gain the same effect as your ally or allies. In addition, when you use a spell-like or supernatural ability that normally affects only you, including spells with a range of personal, you can expend one use of mythic power to share that effect with an adjacent ally. That ally gains the same benefit from the effect as you do. This ability is a supernatural effect when it applies to a spell, spell-like ability, or supernatural effect; otherwise, it is an extraordinary ability.

++++ Loyal to the End (Ex)
When you are struck by an attack (including attacks that target you that automatically hit or do not require attack rolls) while a cohort, follower, animal companion, special mount, or a creature that you have called, charmed, dominated, or summoned is adjacent to you, you can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to choose one adjacent ally, or two uses of mythic power to select such an allied creature within 5 feet per 2 mythic tiers you possess. As an immediate action, that ally willingly intercepts the attack (moving adjacent to you as part of its immediate action if necessary; this movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity). The attack automatically hits your ally as if it was the original target, though your ally’s normal defenses apply, such as damage reduction and spell resistance. You must have the to me! path ability to select this ability.
