title:Martial Package
[[toc]]

+++ What is a Martial Package?
A Martial Package is a collection of martial talents, including a Martial Tradition, that can be quickly applied to NPCs or monsters to convert them into a Practitioner. Martial Packages are templates and should be applied the same way, but cannot be taken by player characters. A creature cannot have both a Martial Package and any regular martial progression (though they may gain talents through other methods, such as the Extra Combat Talent feat, without impacting their ability to gain a Martial Package) - that said, Martial Packages may be taken in place of a creature's existing martial talents to quickly swap their combat style. Players can use Martial Packages as inspiration for builds.

If a Martial Package grants proficiency in any weapon(s), armor(s), or shield(s), a creature that gains the Martial Package may also obtain any or all of the equipment it gains proficiency in.

A Martial Package increases a creature's CR by +1, or +2 if the creature has 10 or more HD. At the GM's discretion, the CR increase may be reduced by 1 if a creature trades out existing martial talents, some feats, or some other abilities they possess.

++++ Building A Martial Package
A Martial Package consists of a Martial Tradition and 20 martial talents numbered and ordered. Creatures may gain a feat (usually a combat feat or another feat that affects their ability as a Practitioner) in place of a talent. When a creature gains a Martial Package, it gets the talents up to its Base Attack Bonus. For example, a creature with a BAB of +7 gets the first seven talents in the martial package. If its BAB increases (usually from leveling up or gaining additional hit dice), it gains new talents up to its BAB. Similarly, any loss of BAB reduces the talents from the Martial Package that a creature knows.

Martial Packages can take drawbacks. If a drawback grants a combat talent, the character gains that benefit at the level they gain the drawback. This does not count against the normal number of talents provided at any given BAB.

Each Martial Package should be thematic and designed to create a particular combat style. We particularly encourage basing talent progression on the basic Martial Tradition used to start it. For example, a Martial Package based on the Drunken Brawler tradition should probably focus on the Barroom and Wresteling spheres. Martial Packages can dip into spheres outside those it starts with, and when to do so is ultimately a matter of design judgement. Remember, Martial Packages are meant for enemies and monsters, not players - as a design principle, they should be fairly straightforward and have no more than two choices for any given effect. We don't want to slow things down by adding too many moving parts!

Martial Packages also provide a general description of the package and how it's intended to be used in play at higher levels. These should always be written for GMs and explain things like an attack routine and what effects are meant to stack with each other.

----

[In Progress]
