title:Pact Magic Investigator Talents
[[toc]]

An investigator can select from the following new talents whenever he gains an investigator talent, provided he meets the talent’s prerequisites.

+ Alchemist Discoveries
An investigator adds the following [http://spheresofpower.wikidot.com/pm-alchemist-discoveries pact magic alchemist discoveries] to the list of alchemist discoveries that he can select in place of an investigator talent: occult formulae, occult suppressant, and oiled extract. He must meet the discovery’s prerequisites, but counts as an alchemist with an effective level equal to his investigator level for this purpose.

+ Foiled Attempt (Ex)
When the investigator deals damage with studied strike, the opponent must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw or lose its ability to use extraordinary, spell-like, or supernatural abilities it possesses that become expended for 1 or more rounds between uses (such as a dragon’s breath weapon or a binder’s major granted abilities). If the target fails its saving throw, any such abilities that the target possesses become expended and unavailable for use for a number of rounds equal to the investigator’s Intelligence bonus (if any). A successful saving throw negates this effect. The DC for this Fortitude save is equal to 10 + 1/2 the investigator’s level + his Intelligence modifier. Creatures immune to critical hits are not affected by this ability. An investigator must be at least 9th level before selecting this talent.

+ Knack for Research (Ex)
An investigator can use his inspiration on any skill check that includes gathering information or performing research without expending uses of inspiration, provided he’s trained in the skill and the skill check takes a minimum of 1 hour to complete. If the investigator could already use his inspiration on such a skill check untrained, he instead adds +2 to his inspiration die when using the skill to spend at least 1 hour gathering information or performing research.

+ Mind Over Madness (Ex)
Whenever an investigator with this talent uses inspiration to improve his saving throw against a mind-affecting effect, he rolls his inspiration die twice and adds the higher result to his saving throw. If the effect is a mind-affecting confusion or insanity effect, he adds the results of both inspiration dice to his saving throw instead. An investigator must be at least 7th level before selecting this talent.

+ Rogue Talents
An investigator adds the following [http://spheresofpower.wikidot.com/pm-rogue-talents pact magic rogue talents] to the list of rogue talents that he can select in place of an investigator talent: binder secret, constellation aspect, and monstrous aspect. He must meet the talent’s prerequisites, but counts as a rogue with an effective level equal to his investigator level for this purpose.
