title:Pact Magic Rage Powers
[[toc]]

Any barbarian meeting the prerequisites can take the following new rage powers. Totem rage powers grant powers in a theme. A barbarian cannot select from more than one group of totem rage powers.

+ Astral Totem (Su)
The barbarian can apply her insight bonus from lesser astral totem to her AC. While raging, the barbarian can roll twice when rolling a miss chance (such as from concealment or blur) and use the better result. A barbarian must have the lesser astral totem rage power and be at least 8th level to select this rage power.

+ Astral Totem, Greater (Su)
While raging, whenever an attack or spell that causes damage would result in the barbarian’s death, she may attempt a DC 20 Will save. If successful, the barbarian is instead reduced to –1 hit points and is automatically stabilized. She can use this ability once per rage. The barbarian may use her lesser astral totem on this Will save even if she has already used this rage power once during her rage. A barbarian must have the astral totem rage power and be at least 12th level to select this rage power.

+ Astral Totem, Lesser (Su)
While raging, the barbarian can gain a +1 insight bonus on an ability check, attack roll, skill check, or saving throw as an immediate action. She can use this ability once per rage. This insight bonus increases by +1 for each additional astral totem rage power the barbarian possesses.

+ Celestial Totem (Su)
While raging, the barbarian shines with a righteous light. This effect bestows upon the barbarian a halo of gleaming light that shines as if it were daylight and triggers an invisibility purge effect in the barbarian’s square and each adjacent square. The invisibility purge affects only non-good creatures. A barbarian must have the lesser celestial totem rage power and be at least 8th level to select this rage power.

+ Celestial Totem, Greater (Su)
While raging, the barbarian gains spell resistance equal to 11 + the barbarian’s class level against spells with the evil descriptor. She also gains a +2 bonus on all saving throws against spells and effects from evil creatures. A barbarian must have the celestial totem rage power and be at least 12th level to select this rage power.

+ Celestial Totem, Lesser (Su)
While raging, the barbarian benefits from increased magical healing. Whenever she is subject to a spell that cures hit point damage, she heals 1 additional point of damage per caster level. In the case of non-spell healing effects (such as channeled energy or lay on hands), she heals a number of additional points equal to the class level of the character performing the magical healing. This does not affect fast healing or regeneration.

+ Eldritch Totem (Su)
While raging, the barbarian’s weapons are treated as silver for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. Additionally, once per day when entering her rage, the barbarian gains 5 temporary hit points per point of Charisma bonus she possesses, up to her level. These temporary hit points stack with those gained from other rage powers but not with those gained from other sources. A barbarian must have the lesser eldritch totem rage power and be at least 8th level to select this rage power.

+ Eldritch Totem, Greater (Su)
While raging, half of the damage that the barbarian deals to spellcasters is considered constant damage for the purpose of determining whether or not the spellcaster must make a concentration check in order to successfully cast a spell during their next turn. A barbarian must have the eldritch totem rage power and be at least 12th level to select this rage power.

+ Eldritch Totem, Lesser (Su)
While raging, the barbarian can imbue her weapons with a fraction of her totem’s power as a swift action. For 1 round, the barbarian’s weapons deal +1 damage and are treated as magic for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. This bonus increases by +1 for each additional eldritch totem rage power the barbarian possesses.

+ Genie Totem (Su)
While raging, the barbarian’s weapons ignite with elemental energy, causing any weapons she wields to deal an additional 1d6 points of energy damage. The damage dealt is of the same type used by the lesser genie totem rage power. A barbarian must have the lesser genie totem rage power and be at least 8th level to select this rage power.

+ Genie Totem, Greater (Su)
While raging, the barbarian gains a form of movement appropriate to her chosen genie type. The movement type granted is determined by the type of genie the barbarian selected with the lesser genie totem rage power. The genies (and their associated movement types) are: djinni (fly 90 feet; good maneuverability), efreeti (land 40 feet), marid (swim 90 feet), and shaitan (burrow 30 feet). A barbarian must have the genie totem rage power and be at least 12th level to select this rage power.

+ Genie Totem, Lesser (Su)
The barbarian selects one of the following types of genie: djinni, efreeti, marid, or shaitan. While raging, creatures that attack the barbarian with a melee weapon, unarmed strike, or natural attack suffer 1d6 points of energy damage. The type of damage dealt is determined by the type of genie selected. The genies (and their associated energy types) are: djinni (electricity), efreeti (fire), marid (cold), and shaitan (acid).

+ Improved Totemic Alignment (Su)
While raging, the barbarian gains access to one constellation aspect associated with the constellation she selected with her tunneled lore class feature, as a pactmaker. This constellation aspect can be used once per rage and once chosen, the barbarian cannot select a different constellation aspect until she rests for 8 hours. A barbarian must have the totemic alignment class feature in order to select this rage power.

+ Skull Totem (Su)
While raging, whenever the barbarian succeeds on a Will saving throw against a spell or supernatural ability that deals negative energy damage, she heals a number of hit points equal to the class level or racial Hit Dice (whichever is highest) of the character using the negative energy effect. Additionally, if the spell or supernatural ability has a reduced effect on a successful save, the barbarian instead avoids the effect entirely. A barbarian must have the lesser skull totem rage power and be at least 8th level to select this rage power.

+ Skull Totem, Greater (Su)
While raging, the barbarian can spend 1 additional round of rage as a swift action in order to become incorporeal for 1 round. While doing so, she gains the incorporeal subtype. She only takes half damage from corporeal sources as long as they are magic (the barbarian takes no damage from nonmagic weapons and objects). Likewise, her attacks only deal half damage to corporeal damage if they are magic weapons or no damage if wielding a non-magic weapon. If her weapon has the ghost touch weapon ability, the barbarian deals full damage with her weapon instead. A barbarian must have the skull totem rage power and be at least 12th level to select this rage power.

+ Skull Totem, Lesser (Su)
While raging, the barbarian gains a +1 morale bonus on saving throws against death effects, disease, paralysis, poison, and sleep effects, effects that cause the dazed or stunned conditions, and any effect that requires a Fortitude save. This morale bonus increases by +1 for each additional skull totem rage power the barbarian possesses.

+ Totemic Mettle (Su)
While raging and bound to a spirit that belongs to the constellation that she choose with the totemic alignment class feature, the barbarian gains the benefits of the stalwart binder secret, ignoring the secret’s prerequisites. A barbarian must possess the totemic alignment class feature and be at least 10th level to select this rage power.

+ Weird Totem (Su)
While raging, space and time distort around the barbarian, granting her concealment (20% miss chance) against all melee and ranged attacks. True seeing can defeat this miss chance, but any creature that looks upon the barbarian with true seeing while she is raging must succeed at a Will save or become confused for 1 round (DC 10 + half the barbarian’s level + the barbarian’s Charisma modifier). A barbarian must have the lesser weird totem rage power and be at least 8th level to select this rage power.

+ Weird Totem, Greater (Su)
While raging, the barbarian rolls twice when using lesser weird totem and gains the natural attacks associated with both results. If she rolls the same natural attack twice, she instead gains that one natural attack, but increases the damage by one size category and adds 1-1/2 times her Strength on the damage roll (or her full Strength if it is a secondary attack). Additionally, the barbarian gains a 50% chance to negate the extra damage dealt to her from critical hits and sneak attacks while raging. This does not stack with fortification and similar defenses. A barbarian must have the weird totem rage power and be at least 12th level to select this rage power.

+ Weird Totem, Lesser (Su)
When the barbarian rages, she rolls 1d8 and gains a natural attack while raging determined by her result: 1–bite (1d8, or 1d6 if Small); 2–2 claws (1d6, or 1d4 if Small); 3–gore (1d8, or 1d6 if Small); 4–2 hooves (1d6, or 1d4 if Small); 5–2 tentacles (1d6, or 1d4 if Small); 6–1 slam (1d8, or 1d4 if Small); 7–1 sting (1d8, or 1d6 if Small); 8–pincers (1d8, or 1d6 if Small). This attack is a primary attack (unless she is also attacking with weapons, in which case it is a secondary attack) and is made at the barbarian’s full base attack bonus (–5 if it is a secondary attack).
