title:Pact Magic Rogue Talents
parent:pact-magic
[[toc]]

The following rogue talents are available to rogues with the ability to bind spirits. Note that rogue talents marked with an asterisk (*) in this list add effects to a rogue’s sneak attack. Only one of these talents can be applied to an individual attack, and the decision must be made before the attack roll is made.

+ Binder Secret
A rogue who selects this talent gains one [http://spheresofpower.wikidot.com/pactmaker#toc10 binder secret] of her choice. She possesses a pactmaker level equal to half her rogue level when meeting the prerequisites of binder secrets. The rogue can select this talent once at 2nd level, plus one additional time for every four levels she attains thereafter (twice at 6th level, three times at 10th level, and so on). The rogue must possess the bind spirit class feature in order to select this talent.

+ Constellation Aspect
When a rogue with this talent makes a good pact with a spirit, she gains one [http://spheresofpower.wikidot.com/pactmaker#toc58 constellation aspect] as a result of her master bartering techniques. The constellation aspects available to each spirit depend upon which constellation that the spirit belongs to. For example, Aza’zati, a Dragon spirit, grants a constellation aspect from the list available to members of the Dragon constellation. Constellation aspects are considered minor granted abilities for all purposes and effects. A fringe binder may possess one constellation aspect per spirit that she has sealed a good pact with, but she may not select the same constellation aspect more than once. The rogue must possess the bind spirit class feature in order to select this talent.

+ Disrupting Offensive (Ex)*
When a rogue with this talent hits a creature with a melee attack that deals sneak attack damage, increase the DC of all concentration checks that opponent makes for each sneak attack die rolled for 1 round.

+ Fortify Skill (Ex)
A rogue who selects this rogue talent can expend the major granted ability of a bound spirit that she is currently bound to for 5 rounds as an immediate action in order to add the spirit’s level as an insight bonus to the next Strength- or Dexterity-based check or skill check she makes before the end of the turn. Abilities such as Rapid Recovery do not reduce the number of rounds that the major granted ability is expended. The rogue must possess the bind spirit class feature in order to select this talent.

+ Monstrous Aspect
When a rogue with this talent makes a good pact with a spirit, she gains one monstrous aspect, as the unbound pactmaker class ability (see page 52), as a result of her master bartering techniques. She chooses which monstrous aspect she receives. All monstrous aspects enforce a physical change upon the binder, this change is instantaneous and cannot be removed by effects such as true form and true seeing views the monstrous aspect as is. A rogue cannot have a constellation aspect and a monstrous aspect at the same time. The rogue must possess the bind spirit class feature in order to select this talent.

+ Pact feat
The rogue receives a pact feat of her choice as a bonus feat. She must meet the feat’s prerequisites, if any. The rogue must possess the bind spirit class feature in order to select this talent.

+ Supernatural Slayer
A rogue who selects this talent gains Supernatural Slayer† as a bonus feat, even if she doesn’t meet the feat’s prerequisites.
