title:Pact Magic Shaman Options
[[toc]]

+ Shaman Hexes
The following new hexes are available to shamans who meet their prerequisites.

++ Binder Secret (Ex)
The shaman receives a [http://spheresofpower.wikidot.com/pactmaker#toc10 binder secret] of her choice, using her shaman level as her effective pactmaker level when attempting to meet the binder secret’s prerequisites. A shaman can select this hex once at 2nd level, plus one additional time at 4th level and every four shaman levels thereafter. A shaman must possess either Amateur Pactmaker† or the bind spirit class feature in order to select this hex.

++ Spirit Speaker (Su)
The shaman can communicate with and question various creatures and entities, allowing her to ask one question per two levels, functioning as speak with dead except the type of creature or object that she can communicate with varies with her shaman level. At 1st level, the shaman can communicate with and question any animal, functioning as speak with animals. At 3rd level, the shaman can also communicate with and question normal plants and any plant creatures, functioning as speak with plants. At 5th level, the shaman can also communicate with and question corpses, functioning as speak with dead. At 7th level, the shaman can also communicate with and question haunts, as speak with haunt^^ACG^^.

At 9th level, the shaman can also communicate with and question the intangible spirits of nature, functioning as commune. These questions do not need to be asked consecutively or to the same creature; a 6th level shaman could ask three questions to one animal, one question to three animals, two questions to one animal and one to another, and so on.

+ Spirits
The following spirit is available to shamans with ties to the Spirit Realm.

++ Spirit Realm
A shaman who selects the Spirit Realm spirit becomes etched with occult signs and seals that cover her body, and she appears gaunt and unnatural. When she calls upon one of the spirit’s abilities, she glows with a weird light as disembodied voices howl around her in confusion, pleasure, and rage.

++ Spirit Magic Spells
ill omen^^APG^^ (2nd), protective spirit^^APG^^ (4th), remove malady† (6th), speak with haunt^^ACG^^ (8th), contact other plane (10th), planar binding (12th), true seeing (14th), protection from the supernatural† (16th), gate (18th).

++ Hexes: A shaman who chooses the Spirit Realm spirit can select from the following hexes.

+++ Constellation Aspects (Su)
Select 1 [http://spheresofpower.wikidot.com/pactmaker#toc58 constellation aspect] granted by the constellation that is associated with the shaman’s occult patron. Each day when she prepares her spells for the day, the shaman gain the selected constellation aspect as if she had sealed a pact with a spirit, using her shaman level as her effective binder level and pactmaker level. The shaman must have the occult patron hex to select this hex.

+++ Ectoplasmic Aptitude (Su)
The shaman gains the Ectoplasmic Spell metamagic featAPG as a bonus feat. In addition, as an immediate action a number of times per day equal to her Intelligence modifier, the shaman can apply the Ectoplasmic Spell feat to any spell she is casting without increasing its spell level or casting time, if using spirit magic.

+++ Ghost Whispers (Su)
The shaman gains the ability to communicate with all incorporeal undead and creatures bound to spirits as if she were under the effects of a tongues spell. In addition, she can cast detect pact spirits† at will. At 10th level, the shaman gains the ability to use occult sight† for a number of rounds per day equal to her shaman level. These rounds do not need to be consecutive. At 15th level she gain a constant detect pact spirits† ability, can cast occult sight at will, and can use greater occult sight† for a number of rounds each day equal to her shaman level. These rounds do not need to be consecutive.

+++ Rejuvenating Womb (Su)
The shaman can encase a willing creature in a soothing panacea of spirit energy as a standard action. While within the womb, the creature falls into a deep sleep that lasts 10 minutes. During this time it is healed of 1d6 points of damage + 1 point per shaman level (maximum +20).

This healing increases by 1d6 points for every two shaman levels beyond 1st that she possesses, to a maximum of 10d6 at 19th level. Beginning at 5th level, the shaman can increase this revelation’s duration to 1 hour in order to heal 1d4 points of ability drain from each of the creature’s ability scores in addition to the revelation’s other effects. Beginning at 9th level, the shaman can use this revelation to return a dead creature to life, as reincarnate, instead of its usual effects. When used in this manner, the creature is reincarnated as a member of the shaman’s race with a physical appearance that strongly suggests a kinship to her. At 15th level, the shaman can reincarnate a dead creature with this revelation regardless of how much of its body remains; anything as fine as ash is sufficient to return the creature to life. A creature can only be affected by this revelation once every 24 hours.

+++ Occult Patron (Su)
Upon gaining this hex, the shaman selects one occult patron†, as a witch. Add the selected occult patron’s spells to the list of spells that the shaman can cast using spirit magic.

++ Spirit Animal
The shaman’s spirit animal possesses a pale, translucent coloration. Attacks made against it have a 20% miss chance, as if it possesses a constant blur effect.

++ Spirit Ability
A shaman who chooses the Spirit Realm spirit as her spirit or wandering spirit gains the following ability.

+++ Wracking Touch (Su)
As a standard action, the shaman can make a melee touch attack that deals 1d6 points of negative energy damage + 1 point for every 2 shaman levels she possesses. If she uses this ability on an undead creature, it is instead healed for 1d6 points of damage + 1 point for every 2 shaman levels she possesses. A shaman can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 3 + her Charisma modifier. At 11th level, any weapon she wields is treated as a vicious weapon.

++ Greater Spirit Ability
A shaman who chooses the Spirit Realm spirit as her spirit or wandering spirit gains the following ability upon having access to the greater version of that spirit.

+++ Veiled Meditation (Su)
You can attempt to commune with the denizens of the Spirit Realm. Doing so requires a mat scrawled with the letters of the alphabet and a planchette as a material focus. After spending 2d6 full rounds concentrating on the planchette, you may ask it a question, to which the spirit responds by moving the planchette to spell out either “yes,” “no,” or “maybe” in a language you can understand. The GM rolls d% to determine if the spirit answers truthfully or with a lie. The chance for a truthful answer is equal to 40% + double the shaman’s level. A truthful spirit will answer with “maybe” if it does not know the answer to the question.

Each time you ask a question, there is a chance that the spirits will take vengeance. After asking a question, the shaman must succeed on a Will save or suffer a –1 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and AC as though the shaman disobeyed a spirit’s personality influence. The DC equals 15 + 2d6; determine the DC randomly each time a question is asked. You can ask a number of questions each day equal to half your shaman level.

++ True Spirit Ability
A shaman who chooses the Spirit Realm spirit as her spirit or wandering spirit gains the following ability upon having access to the true version of that spirit.

+++ Untethered Soul (Su)
The shaman becomes incorporeal as a standard action as she expels her soul from its coil, causing the shaman’s body to crumple into a heap. A faint, shimmering cord connects the shaman’s incorporeal soul to her body. The cord is only visible on the ethereal plane. The shaman’s body and soul share all aspects of her being, including depletable statistics such as hit points, and if either soul or body dies, the other dies as well. The shaman gain the usual traits associated with incorporeal creatures, but her incorporeal defenses do not affect damage dealt to her body. The shaman can remain incorporeal for a number of minutes equal to her shaman level. These minutes do not need to be consecutive, but they must be spent in 1-minute increments. Reuniting the shaman’s soul and body is a full-round action that requires her to be adjacent to it. If the distance between the shaman and her body exceeds 100 feet per shaman level, the tether connecting your body and soul snaps, killing her instantly.

++ Manifestation
Upon reaching 20th level, the shaman becomes permanently infused with the power of the Spirit Realm. She become immune to charm and compulsion effects, death effects, negative levels, and possession. When she targets a living creature with a spell or hex, the shaman increases that spell or hex’s saving throw DC by +2. Once per day, she can cast etherealness as a spell-like ability.
