title:Pact Magic Weapon Abilities
parent:pact-magic
[[toc]]

The following are new special abilities that can be added to enchanted weapons, following the rules in the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook.

++ Exorcising
An exorcising weapon functions like a spell storing weapon, but it may only store dismiss pact spirits†; however, the caster level check to exorcise gains an additional bonus equal to the weapon’s enhancement bonus. This bonus also applies to any class feature, option, or ability that functions as banish pact spirits†, such as the exorcise pact spirits binder secret.

Strong abjuration; BL 10th; Craft Arms and Armor, banish pact spirits, creator must be a binder of at least 10th level; Cost +1 bonus.

++ Exorcising Burst
An exorcising burst weapon functions like an exorcising weapon but may store banish pact spirits† or dismiss pact spirits† and its enhancement bonus applies to any class feature, option, or ability that functions as banish pact spirits† or dismiss pact spirits†, such as the exorcise pact spirits binder secret. In addition, these spells can be discharged as a free action when the wielder of an exorcising burst weapon confirms a critical hit. When the wielder does so, the bonus to the check made to exorcise (including from abilities that function as banish pact spirits†) increases by an amount equal to the weapon’s enhancement bonus or the weapon’s critical multiplier (whichever is higher).

If an exorcising burst weapon confirms a critical hit while it is not currently storing a banish pact spirits† or dismiss pact spirits† spell, yet if the wielder has either spell prepared (or is a spontaneous spellcaster able to cast either spell), she may cast either spell into the weapon as a swift action and then immediately discharge it into the target as a free action.

Strong abjuration; CL 12th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, dismiss pact spirits†, creator must be a binder of at least 12th level; Cost +2 bonus.

++ Pact Augmenting
An pact augmenting weapon enhances the effects that pactmaker powers have on the wearer’s ability to harm foes with the weapon. If the wielder possesses the pact augmentation class feature, any bonuses on attack rolls or damage rolls from pact augmentation are increased by half the weapon’s enhancement bonus while wielding the pact augmenting weapon. This ability cannot enhance the same augmentation more than once, even if the wielder has selected it multiple times.

Strong occult; BL 16th; Craft Arms and Armor, bolster binding†; Cost +2 bonus.

++ Pact Bane
A pact bane weapon is designed to wreck occult creatures as well as those that are bound to otherworldly entities. When wielded against a creature with a binder level or that possesses the pact subtype, a pact bane weapon’s enhancement bonus is +2 better than its actual bonus. It also deals an extra 2d6 points of damage against creatures with a binder level or that possess the pact subtype. This extra damage is not multiplied on a critical hit.

Strong occult; BL 12th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, reveal heresy, weapon of awe; Cost +1 bonus.

++ Spirit-Attuned
Spirit-attuned weapons are favored implements of binders, for they allow their wielder to harness the very nature of a pact spirit into a dangerously flexible weapon. Once per day, a spirit-attuned weapon can be used as a focus for the ceremony of one pact that its wielder makes with a spirit, allowing the wielder to add half of the weapon’s enhancement bonus (minimum +1) to binding checks that the wielder makes with that spirit. If a spirit-attuned† weapon’s wielder makes a good pact with this spirit, the weapon is counted as a weapon of the spirit’s alignment for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. For instance, a spirit-attuned† weapon used to bind a Lawful Good spirit counts as a lawful and good weapon, allowing it to overcome DR/good, DR/lawful, DR/good or lawful, and so on.

Strong occult; BL 12th; Craft Magic Arms and Armor, bolster binding, magic aura; Price +2 bonus.
