title:Sample Skill Challenges
Skill Challenge Stat Block
Skill challenges are organized into stat blocks, similar to
creatures. This is where all of the information needed to run
a skill challenge can be found. A skill challenge stat block is
organized as follows. Note that in cases where a line in a skill
challenge stat block has no value, that line is omitted.
Name and CR: The skill challenge’s name is presented first,
along with its Challenge Rating (CR). A skill challenge’s CR is a
numerical indication of what the Average Party Level (APL) of a
group of characters should be before they attempt the skill challenge.
XP: Listed here are the total experience points that the PCs
earn for clearing the skill challenge.
Type: Skill challenges come in several varieties. The types of skill
challenges introduced in the Skill Challenge Handbook are general,
chase, contest, and influence. General skill challenges are described
in the rules above, while chase skill challenges are described starting
on page 30, contest skill challenges on page 36, influence skill
challenges on page 54, and verbal duel challenges on page 64.
Goal: This is a brief description of what the PCs are trying
to accomplish during the skill challenge.
Primary Skills: This lists the skills that the PCs can use to
earn completion during the skill challenge is noted here, as well
as the difficulty and skill check DC associated with each skill.
Secondary Skills: This lists the difficulty and skill DC of
all skill checks that are attempted to earn completion that are
not primary skills. The GM is the final arbiter of which skills
can be used to earn completion during the skill challenge.
Frequency: This lists the amount of time that passes
between each cycle during the skill challenge.
Circumstance Bonus (Optional Element): Some skill
challenges provide special bonuses to certain skills, which are
noted in this entry.
Languages (Optional Element): If the skill challenge
has this optional element, this notes any languages that the
PCs must be able to understand in order to earn completion
during the skill challenge. Some skill challenges with the
languages optional element only require characters to
understand the listed languages when making specific skill
checks, while others don’t require complete fluency. Such
exceptions are also noted in this entry.
Time Pressure (Optional Element): This lists the
number of cycles that the PCs have to finish the skill challenge.
If they fail to clear it in the listed number of skill challenges,
they automatically fail the skill challenge.
Completion: The ultimate goal of every skill challenge
is to complete it, and this outlines the skill challenge’s
completion method (movement, progress, or successes) and
the amount of completion needed to successfully clear it.
Backlash (Optional Element): This entry notes any
negative effects that the PCs take when they fail to earn
completion towards clearing a skill challenge or gaining an
advantage by 5 or more.
Demerits (Optional Element): This entry notes the
number of demerits that the PCs can accrue during the skill
challenge. A demerit is accrued anytime that a character fails a
skill check to earn completion.
Failures Allowed: This entry notes the total number
of failures that the PCs can make during the skill challenge
before they automatically fail it.
SQ: This entry notes any special qualities or rules that the
skill challenge has.
Benefit: This is the reward or boon that the PCs gain for
completing the skill challenge.
Penalty: This is the consequence that the PCs incur should
they fail to complete the skill challenge.
Obstacles: In a movement-based skill challenge, this
lists the obstacles that the PCs must overcome in order to
successfully clear the skill challenge.
Thresholds (Optional Element): In a progress-based
or success-based skill challenge, this notes any thresholds that
occur as the skill challenge progresses.
Sample Skill Challenges
The following skill challenges were designing using the rules
described above.
Babysitting CR 1
XP 400
Goal The PCs are watching the three children of two affluent
nobles while they attend an annual gala. By ensuring the safety
of the children, the PCs hope to earn a favor from the nobles.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Acrobatics (average, DC 16), Diplomacy
(challenging, DC 18), Intimidate (average DC 16),
Perception (difficult, DC 21), Perform (any) (easy, DC
11), Profession (cook or midwife) (average, DC 16), Sense
Motive (difficult, DC 21), Sleight of Hand (average, DC 16).
Secondary Skills Difficult, DC 21
Frequency 1 hour
COMPLETION
Successes Needed 2
Demerits 3
SQ limited completion (3 primary participants, 2 assistants
per primary participant)
Benefit If the PCs succeed with no demerits, the nobles gladly give
them the favor they asked for, and their Relationship Score with
the PCs increases by 1. If the PCs succeed with 1 demerit, the
nobles offer to give the PCs the favor they requested in exchange
for 2d6 x 10 gp. If the PCs succeed with 2 demerits, the nobles
offer to give the PCs the favor they requested in exchange for
2d12 x 10 gp. If the PCs gain 3 demerits but would otherwise
succeed, the success instead counts as a failure with no demerits
(see below). For more information regarding Relationship
Scores, see the Relationship section in Ultimate Charisma.
Penalty If the PCs fail to the gain the requisite number of successes
but have no demerits, the nobles offer to give the PCs the favor
they requested in exchange for 2d12 x 10 gp. If the PCs fail to
the gain the requisite number of successes and have 1 demerit,
they decline to give the PCs the favor they requested. If the PCs
fail to the gain the requisite number of successes and have 2
demerits, they decline to give the PCs the favor they requested,
and their Relationship Score with the PCs is reduced by 1. If the
PCs fail to the gain the requisite number of successes and have 3
demerits, they decline to give the PCs the favor they requested
and their relationship score with the PCs is reduced by 2.
Missing Wizard CR 2
XP 600
Goal The PCs must research the personal study of a missing
town sage to search for clues regarding his disappearance.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Knowledge (local) (easy, DC 13), Knowledge
(nature) (easy, DC 13), Perception (challenging, DC 20),
Sense Motive (challenging, DC 20)
Secondary Skills (difficult, DC 23)
Frequency 8 hours
Languages Common (read only)
Time Pressure 7 days
COMPLETION
Progress 6
SQ limited completion (1 primary participant, any number
of assistants).
Benefit The PCs can use the information gleaned from the sage’s
notes to determine where he has headed and follow him there.
Failure If the PCs fail to discover where the sage has gone
within a week’s time, he has suffered a gruesome fate at the
hands of the bandit leader—if he isn’t dead, he’s certainly
unable to offer them much assistance for a time, if ever.
THRESHOLD
1 Progress At low tide, a hidden entrance to underground
caverns becomes visible beneath the town’s docks. According to
a number of local legends, pirates hid their booty in the caves.
3 Progress The flower seller in the town square is the local
priest’s illegitimate daughter. Given the priest’s vow of chastity,
if this knowledge became public, he could lose respect among
the townsfolk and likely his position as the town’s priest.
6 Progress The leader of the bandits in the woods outside town
claims to be the deposed lord of the neighboring barony, and
wants to raise an army to take back his title and lands. The sage’s
notes indicate that he was planning on seeking out this bandit
lord and using his records to prove the veracity of the claim.
Powering the Runestone CR 3
XP 800
Goal The PCs must reactivate a failed runestone in order to
defend the village from an eldritch horror.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Knowledge (arcana) (easy, DC 14), Spellcraft
(easy, DC 14), Use Magic Device (average, DC 19)
Frequency 1 round
Time Pressure 1 minute
COMPLETION
Successes 3
Backlash Failing a skill check to earn a success by 5 or more
causes the runestone to lash out with eldritch power, dealing
1d8+1 points of force damage and causes all participants to
become stunned for 1 round. A DC 13 Will save negates the
stunned condition, but not the damage.
SQ imbued spell (dimensional anchor CL 15th), specific skills
Benefit The PCs reactivate the runestone, causing all
inhabitants within the village to gain the benefits of a
protection from evil spell against the eldritch horror preparing
to attack it.
Penalty Once the PCs begin to reactivate the runestone,
its power surges in the air around them. If the PCs fail to
reactivate the runestone after 1 minute, a blast of destructive
energies wreck the PCs. Each PC takes 2d8+3 points of
damage as if affected as if by color spray (DC 11 negates).
Crossing the Bridge CR 4
XP 1,200
Goal The PCs must make their way across the chasm’s bridge
without damaging the bridge’s integrity or risk falling.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Acrobatics (easy, DC 15)
Frequency 1 round
COMPLETION
Movement 10
Backlash Failure causes the bridge to take 1d4 points
of damage, ignoring its hardness. The bridge has 20 hit
points. If the bridge takes 10 points of damage, all squares
on the bridge count as difficult terrain for the purpose of
determining the number of squares that characters advance,
and the DC of all skill checks made to bypass the bridge’s
obstacles increases by 2. If the bridge takes 20 points of
damage, it is destroyed. Characters on the bridge when it
is destroyed fall 80 feet to the bottom of the chasm (8d6
falling damage) unless they succeed on a DC 20 Reflex
save to hang on to the splintering bridge. Characters with
a square count of 1 to 2 side have their square count set to
2 and can only advanced backwards, while characters on
the 9 to 10 side have their square count set to 8 and can
only advanced forwards. Characters with 3 to 7 squares
have a 50% chance to end up on either side. Once the
bridge is destroyed, Climb (challenging, DC 22) replaces
all other primary skills for the skill challenge’s obstacles for
characters hanging on to the bridge.
SQ advantage (any), individual completion, specific skills
Benefit If all PCs successfully cross the bridge, they can
continue on their adventure unhindered.
Penalty If the bridge is destroyed, the PCs must reroute their
course and attempt to find a new path across the chasm.
They may need to spend additional time finding any party
members who fell from the bridge.
OBSTACLES
1 Square+ The bridge sways irregularly in the unchecked
breeze, threatening to topple the PCs over.
Type hazard; Notice Survival (easy, DC 15)
Bypass Skills Acrobatics (easy, DC 15)
SQ specific skills
Effect difficult terrain and target falls prone; DC 20 Reflex
avoids the prone condition
5 Squares The bridge’s planks are unstable, and threaten to
give out under the PCs as they make their way across.
Type peril; Notice Craft (carpentry) (easy, DC 15),
Knowledge (engineering) (easy, DC 15), Perception
(average, DC 20), Profession (architect) (easy, DC 15)
Bypass Skills Craft (carpentry) (average, DC 20), Knowledge
(engineering) (average, DC 20); Secondary Skills
(challenging, DC 22)
SQ individual completion, trap-like
Effect 80-ft.-deep pit (8d6 damage); DC 20 Reflex avoids;
multiple targets (all targets with a square count of 1)
10 Squares The bridge’s planks are unstable, and threaten to
give out under the PCs as they make their way across.
Type peril; Notice Craft (carpentry) (easy, DC 15),
Knowledge (engineering) (easy, DC 15), Perception
(average, DC 20), Profession (architect) (easy, DC 15)
Bypass Skills Craft (carpentry) (average, DC 20), Knowledge
(engineering) (average, DC 20); Secondary Skills
(challenging, DC 25)
SQ individual completion, trap-like
Effect 80-ft.-deep pit (8d6 damage); DC 20 Reflex avoids;
multiple targets (all targets with a square count of 1)
A Meal Fit for a Dragon CR 5
XP 1,600
Goal The PCs must successfully cook a succulent meal for a
dragon in order to gain his assistance and avoid being eaten.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Perception (difficult, DC 26), Profession
(cook) (average, DC 21)
Secondary Skills Very difficult, DC 28
Frequency 10 minutes
COMPLETION
Successes 4
Demerits 3
SQ limited completion (1 primary participant, any number
of assistants)
Benefit If the PCs succeed with no demerits, the dragon is
delighted with the quality of his meal, improving his attitude
towards the PCs to helpful. If the PCs succeed with 1
demerit, the dragon is impressed with the quality of his meal,
improving his starting attitude towards the PCs to friendly. If
the PCs succeed with 2 demerits, the dragon finds his meal
passable, making him indifferent to the PCs and only willing
to help them in exchange for a 500 gp tithe per PC. If the PCs
gain 3 demerits but would otherwise succeed, the success
instead counts as a failure with no demerits (see below).
Penalty If the PCs fail to the gain the requisite number of
successes but have no demerits, the dragon finds his meal
passable but is unimpressed, making him indifferent and only
willing to help the PCs in exchange for a 750 gp tithe per PC.
If the PCs fail with 1 demerit, the dragon is displeased with
his meal, making him unfriendly and only willing to help the
PCs in exchange for a 1,000 gp tithe per PC. If the PCs fail
with 2 demerits, the dragon is disgusted by his meal, making
him unfriendly and unwilling to help the PCs. If the PCs fail
with 3 demerits, the dragon is disgusted and insulted by his
meal, making him hostile and unwilling to help the PCs.
Cracking the Spellbook CR 6
XP 2,400
Goal The PCs must search the arcane library of a vanished
wizard in order to learn of any wards that the spellcaster
might have placed upon his spellbook before he disappeared.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Knowledge (arcana) (easy, DC 18),
Knowledge (planes) (easy, DC 18), Knowledge (religion)
(easy, DC 18), Spellcraft (average, DC 23)
Frequency 8 hours
Languages Common (read only)
Skill Bonus Knowledge (arcana) +4, Knowledge (planes)
+4, Knowledge (religion) +4
COMPLETION
Progress 18
SQ limited completion (1 primary participant, any number of
assistants), specific skills
Benefit The PCs are able to bypass the spellbook’s wards and
defenses, allowing them to glean arcane knowledge from it
and catch a rare glimpse at the vanished wizard’s musings
and experiments.
Failure If the PCs fail to discover the methods to bypass the
wizard’s defenses, they must either find a way to remove
the wards or risk opening the book and facing the wrath of
watever spells he placed upon his most private of treasures.
THRESHOLD
5 Progress The wizard’s spellbook is warded with a unique
symbol spell of his own design. He wanted anyone brazen
enough to try and learn from his works to suffer greatly for
their arrogance.
10 Progress After several failed experiences left his book
singed and his library badly burned, the wizard decided a
more subtle approach was in order. He began devising a way
to make sure that anyone who read from his book without
his permission would be unable to read anything ever again.
15 Progress The wizard devised a nefarious spell gylph (as
per rune of warding) that acted similarly to symbol of sleep (DC
20, CL 10th), except those who fell asleep from the glyph’s
influence also permanently lost the ability to read and
write, as bestow curse. This knowledge allows characters with
the trapfinding class feature or the ability to disarm magical
traps the ability to use Disable Device to earn progress to
complete the skill challenge as if it were a primary skill.
18 Progress The wizard designed a bypass mechanic for
his spellbook’s trap so he wouldn’t need to be bothered
with constantly disarming and rearming the trap. The glyph
does not trigger for anyone who opens the spellbook while
wearing a signet ring with the wizard’s insignia upon it.
An Audience with the King CR 7
XP 3,200
Goal The PCs must convince the king’s majordomo to hold an
audience with them.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Bluff (average, DC 24), Diplomacy (average,
DC 24), Intimidate (challenging, DC 26), Knowledge
(history) (average, DC 24), Knowledge (nobility) (easy, DC
19), Profession (barrister) (challenging, DC 26)
Secondary Skills Difficult, DC 29
Frequency 1 round
COMPLETION
Successes 5
Demerits 3
Benefit If the PCs succeed with no demerits, the majordomo
permits them an audience with the king immediately, and
the king’s starting attitude with the PCs is friendly. If the PCs
succeed with 1 demerit, the majordomo permits them an
audience with the king immediately, and the king’s starting
attitude with the PCs is indifferent. If the PCs succeed with 2
demerits, the majordomo permits them an audience with the
king in 2d6 hours, and the king’s starting attitude is indifferent.
If the PCs gain 3 demerits but would otherwise succeed, the
success instead counts as a failure with no demerits (see below).
Penalty If the PCs fail with no demerits, the majordomo
permits them an audience with the king in 1d3 days, and the
king’s starting attitude is indifferent. If the PCs fail with 1
demerit, the majordomo permits them an audience with the
king in 1d6 days, and the king’s starting attitude is indifferent.
If the PCs fail with 2 demerits, the majordomo permits them
an audience with the king in 2d4 days, and the king’s starting
attitude is unfriendly. If the PCs fail with 3 demerits, the
majordomo does not permit the PCs an audience with the
king, and the king’s starting attitude is unfriendly.
Living Maze CR 8
XP 4,800
Goal The PCs must navigate through a living maze that seeks
to entrap them within its confines.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Knowledge (arcana) (difficult, DC 30),
Knowledge (geography) (difficult, DC 32), Knowledge
(planes) (difficult, DC 30), Survival (challenging, DC 29)
Frequency 10 minutes
COMPLETION
Movement 18
Backlash Failure causing the PCs to lose 1d4 squares of
movement as the maze twists and contorts around them,
making them helplessly lost.
SQ advantage (3), critical fumble, imbued (dimensional anchor,
CL 25th), specific skills; The walls of the maze can detect
flying creatures and adjust their height accordingly. As
a result, characters cannot earn squares to clear the skill
challenge by using a fly speed.
OBSTACLES
1 Square+ The maze that the PCs are traversing is alive, and
must be outwitted at every turn..
Type hazard; Notice Knowledge (arcana) (challenging,
DC 27), Knowledge (geography) (average, DC 25),
Perception (difficult, DC 30)
Bypass Skills Knowledge (arcana) (challenging, DC 27),
Knowledge (geography) (average, DC 25), Perception
(difficult, DC 30); Secondary Skills very difficult, DC 32
SQ critical fumble
Effect Failure indicates that the character does not earn any
squares towards clearing the skill challenge this cycle.
10 Squares The maze rips an interdimensional hole in itself
to whisk the PCs back to the beginning of the maze.
Type peril; Notice Knowledge (arcana) (challenging, DC 27),
Perception (difficult, DC 30), Spellcraft (average, DC 25)
Bypass Skills Knowledge (arcana) (challenging, DC 27),
Knowledge (geography) (average, DC 25), Perception
(difficult, DC 30); Secondary Skills very difficult, DC 32
SQ limited occurrence (1)
Effect Spell (plane shift, CL 12th); DC 16 Will avoids; multiple
targets (all targets with a square count of 10); characters that
fail their saving throw have their square count reduced to 0.
15 Squares The maze creates stone guardians to attempt to
stop the PCs from advancing any further.
Type peril; Notice Knowledge (arcana) (challenging, DC 27),
Perception (difficult, DC 30), Spellcraft (average, DC 25)
SQ limited occurrence (1), unavoidable
Effect Creature (1 huge earth elemental; Pathfinder
Roleplaying Game: Bestiary 1) The elemental automatically
succeeds on all skill checks to bypass obstacles and gain
advantage, and attempts to knock the PCs unconscious so
it can drag them back to square count 0.
18 Squares The maze seals its exit with a massive stone wall.
Type obstruction; Notice Knowledge (arcana) (challenging,
DC 27), Perception (difficult, DC 30), Spellcraft
(average, DC 25)
Bypass Skills Climb (average, DC 25); Secondary Skills
challenging, DC 27
Effect Blockade (hardness 8, 90 hp, 2 successes to bypass)
Staying the Course CR 9
XP 6,400
Goal The PCs must fight to keep their ship on-course during
a deadly storm.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Acrobatics (difficult, DC 32), Climb
(difficult, DC 32), Profession (sailor) (challenging, DC 29),
Survival (difficult, DC 32), Swim (very difficult, DC 34)
Frequency 10 minutes
COMPLETION
Successes 6
SQ specific skills, surprise start (Knowledge [geography] [average,
DC 27], Knowledge [nature] [challenging, DC 29], Profession
[sailor] [average, DC 27], Survival [average, DC 27])
Benefit The PCs weather the storm and can continue sailing
without impediment.
Failure The PCs survive the storm, but their ship is battered
or worse, based upon their success at the skill challenge’s
threshold intervals (see below).
THRESHOLDS
1 Cycle At the end of the first cycle, wind speeds increase to
moderate (20 mph) and it begins to rain. On subsequent
cycles, a PC must succeed on a DC 16 Acrobatics or Climb
check to move across the slick, gusty deck in order to
attempt a skill check to earn successes.
2 Cycles At the end of the second cycle, the wind speeds
increase to strong (30 mph and the rain picks up into a full
thunderstorm, forcing every PC to attempt an Acrobatics
or Climb check each cycle, even if they don’t attempt to
earn successes. Failing this check once causes the character
to fall prone (standing up requires a successful Acrobatics
or Climb check during the next cycle), while failing a
check while already prone causes the character to get swept
overboard (Reflex DC 18 negates). A character who is
swept overboard takes 4d6 points of bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage each round as they are ground against
the ship’s hull and must hold their breath as if they were
submerged. An overboard character can attempt a Climb
check to climb back onto the ship (DC 30). A PC can toss
an overboard character a rope as a full-cycle action to grant
it a +5 bonus to climb back onboard; this bonus increases
to +10 if the rope is knotted. This is in addition to the
events described by the 1 cycle threshold.
3 Cycles At the start of the third round, lightning crashes in
the sky above the PCs’ vessel. Each round, there is a 25%
chance that a lightning bolt will strike the ship. Determine
randomly whether the lightning strikes a PC or the ship.
Each bolt deals 10d6 points of electricity damage; a PC can
attempt a DC 18 Reflex save to reduce the damage by half,
but the ship takes half damage from the bolt as well on a
successful save. Lightning bolts ignore the ship’s hardness
and cause it to catch fire; each additional time the ship
catches fire beyond the first increases the amount of fire
damage that the ship burns for by 1d6. This is in addition to
the events described by the 1 and 2 cycle thresholds.
4 Cycles+ Each additional cycle beyond the 3rd, the weather
fluctuates between the conditions described by the 1, 2, and
3 cycle thresholds (determine randomly).
Crushing Ceiling CR 10
XP 9,600
Goal The PCs must discover a way to escape the chamber before
they are crushed by the room’s slowly descending ceiling.
Setting A 20-foot by 20-foot sealed chamber with a 50-foot
high ceiling. The walls, floor, and ceiling are 20-foot by 20-
foot slabs of stone (hardness 8, 1,800 hp), and when the
skill challenge begins the ceiling-slab begins descending
towards the ground at a rate of 5 feet per round. The ceiling
slab weighs 1.5 tons (3,000 pounds).
SKILLS
Primary Skills Disable Device (average, 29), Knowledge
(engineering) (easy, 24), Perception (average, 29)
Secondary Skills Very difficult, DC 36
Frequency 1 round
Time Pressure 10 cycles
COMPLETION
Successes Needed 7
Backlash If a PC fails a skill check by 5 or more, reduce the
skill challenge’s time pressure by 1 cycle.
Benefit If the PCs succeed before the time pressure
concludes, they find a secret door that enables them to
escape the room.
SQ surprise start (Knowledge [engineering] [challenging, DC
31], Perception [difficult, 34]), Characters with bonuses on
skill checks made to locate secret doors gain those bonuses on
skill checks made to earn completion in the skill challenge. If
targeted by effects, all walls, floors, and ceilings in the room
have hardness 8 and 1,800 hp with a saving throw bonus of
+18 on all saves (they are 20-foot thick slabs of stone).
Penalty If the PCs fail to gain 5 successes before the time
pressure ends, the slab makes a grapple attempt against
all creatures within the room, attempting to pin any
creature that it has not already grappled. The stab has a
CMB of +22 (base atk +10, size +4 Strength +8), a CMD
of 32, and the constrict (10d6+8) special ability. Any
creature pinned by the slab must hold its breath to avoid
suffocation. Creatures that are not pinned can continue
to make skill checks to attempt to find the hidden door,
accruing successes towards escaping the room. Succeeding
at the skill challenge after the time pressure has completed
still counts as a failure for the purpose of determining
the amount of XP earned from the challenge, however. A
character cannot escape from the room if she is grappled
or pinned, even after the challenge has been completed
Prosecution CR 11
XP 12,800
Goal The PCs must take on the role of prosecutors in a trial in
order to prevent an enemy from acquitting herself.
SKILLS
Primary Opposed Skills Bluff (Sense Motive; difficult,
+18), Diplomacy (Bluff, challenging +15), Profession
(barrister) (Profession [barrister]; average, +13),
Knowledge (history) (Bluff, challenging +15), Knowledge
(local) (Bluff, challenging +15), Sense Motive (Bluff;
challenging, +15)
Frequency 10 minutes
Language Common (spoken only)
COMPLETION
Successes 7
Backlash If a PC fails an opposed skill check by 10 or more,
they earn an additional demerit as they accidentally provide
a sound argument for their opponent’s release.
Demerits 4
SQ limited completion (1 primary participant, no assistants),
specific skills
Benefit If the PCs succeed with no demerits, their enemy
is jailed and receives the maximum possible sentence, as
appropriate for her crimes. For each demerit they receive,
their enemy is jailed, but her sentence decreases in severity
as appropriate, such as going from life to 25 years, then
from 25 years to 10 years, then from 10 years to 1 year
as appropriate. If the PCs gain 4 demerits but would
otherwise succeed, the success instead counts as a failure
with no demerits (see below).
Penalty If the PCs with no demerits, their enemy is left off
with minimal sentencing, as they were unable to produce
sound enough evidence to incarcerate her. For each
demerit they receive, the attitude of the townsfolk worsens
by one step (minimum hostile) as they become increasingly
angered by the PC’s incompetence and question whether
or not their opponent was even guilty to begin with. If the
PCs fail with 4 demerits, the townsfolk become quickly
convinced that they are the true perpetrators of their
opponent’s crimes and seek to either imprison them or run
them out of town. This attitude adjustment lasts a minimum
of 1d12 years or until the PCs can clear their names.
History Lesson – War College CR 12
XP 19,200
Goal The PCs must discover the hidden history of the war college
if they are to properly defend it against a hobgoblin invasion.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Knowledge (engineering) (average, DC 32),
Knowledge (history) (average, DC 32), Profession (soldier)
(average, DC 32)
Frequency 8 hours
Languages Common (read only)
Skill Bonus Knowledge (engineering) +4, Knowledge
(history) +4, Profession (soldier) +4; can attempt Knowledge
(engineering) and Profession (soldier) checks untrained.
Time Pressure 7 days
COMPLETION
Progress 32
SQ limited completion (1 primary participant, any number of
assistants), specific skills
Benefit The PCs are able to discover the weakest parts of the
college’s defenses, increasing the building’s Defense by +4
during the upcoming assault.
Failure The college’s defenses are woefully inadequate for
the war to come. If the PCs do not complete the skill
challenge, the college gains no bonus to its Defense against
the upcoming assault. If they fail to earn at least 20 progress,
their utter lack of preparation causes the college to take a
–2 penalty to its Defense.
THRESHOLD
5 Progress Master Vazal at the Hammer and Anvil believes
that red hair is a blessing from the Lord of Battles, and
frequently offers discounts on masterwork and enchanted
weapons to ginger-headed warriors.
10 Progress When a local duke was slain in the Battle of a
Hundred Blades, his legendary shield, Bladesplitter, was
never recovered. It is believed that the hobgoblins’ war
chief took it as a trophy.
20 Progress Detailed blueprints illustrate the strengths and
weaknesses of the war college. All border fronts on the
northern frontier were built with similar defenses.
30 Progress Scouting reports mention a shield matching
Bladesplitter’s description in the hands of a hobgoblin
warlord gathering an army in the nearby hills. Its rumored
that this new war chief is either the descendant of the
shield’s previous hobgoblin master or that she defeated the
aging warlord in battle.
32 Progress A secret postern gate in the southeast wall of
the war college provides access to the guard barracks. The
college fell to the war goblin horde during the last war, and
there is evidence that the hobgoblins might attempt the
same trick again in the near future.
Against the Avalanche CR 13
XP 25,600
Goal The PCs must push their way up to a mountain shrine
while an avalanche cascades around them.
SKILLS
Primary Skills Acrobatics (average, DC 33), Knowledge
(geography) (challenging, DC 35), Perception (difficult,
DC 38), Knowledge (nature) (challenging, DC 35),
Survival (easy, DC 28)
Frequency 1 round
COMPLETION
Movement 100
SQ specific skills, surprise start (Knowledge [geography] [easy,
DC 28], Perception [easy, DC 28], Knowledge [nature] [easy,
DC 28], Survival [easy, DC 28])
Benefit The PCs reach the mountain shrine and are able to
continue unimpeded.
Penalty The PCs are unable to reach the mountain shrine,
and must find a way to circumvent the jinushigami.
OBSTACLES
1 Square+ Sensing the presence of intruders, a jingushigami
that has made the mountain its ward triggers an avalanche.
Type hazard; Notice Knowledge (geography) (easy, DC 28),
Perception (easy, DC 28), Knowledge (nature) (easy, DC
28), Survival (easy, DC 28)
Bypass Skills Acrobatics (average, DC 33), Knowledge
(geography) (challenging, DC 35), Perception (difficult,
DC 38), Knowledge (nature) (challenging, DC 35),
Survival (easy, DC 28)
Effect hazard; The obstacle acts as a CR 7 avalanche (see the
mountainous terrain section of Chapter 13 in Pathfinder
Roleplaying Game: Core Rulebook). Characters with a square
count of 1 or higher are in the slide zone, while characters
who have a square count of 0 are in the bury zone. Failing
to bypass the obstacle forces characters to attempt the
DC 15 Reflex save to reduce or avoid the damage dealt
by the avalanche, and such characters may become buried.
Characters who aren’t buried can dig out their allies as a
full-cycle action if using only their hands, or a cycle action
if using an appropriate tool, such as a pick, crowbar, or
shovel. A buried character can also spend a half-cycle
action to free herself with a DC 25 Strength check.
10 Squares The jingushigami uses its control plants spell-like
ability to temporarily command a number of plant creatures
in the area to impede the PCs.
Type peril; Notice Knowledge (nature) (easy, DC 28),
Spellcraft (easy, DC 28)
SQ limited occurrence (3)
Bypass Skills Acrobatics (average, DC 33), Knowledge
(nature) (average, DC 33), Perception (challenging, DC
35), Survival (challenging, DC 35)
Effect Spell (entangle; CL 13th, Reflex DC 19)
45 Squares+ Frustrated by their advances, the jinushigami
uses its manipulate terrain ability to make the mountain
more difficult to traverse.
Type hazard; Notice Knowledge (nature) (easy, DC 28)
SQ unavoidable
Effect The skill challenge’s frequency increases to 10 minutes
for the remainder of the skill challenge. In addition,
characters using Survival to gain an advantage take a –10
penalty on their skill checks.
65 Squares+ Desperate to keep the PCs from reaching the top
of the mountain, the jinushigami uses its merge with ward
ability to help guide the avalanche.
Type hazard; Notice Knowledge (nature) (easy, DC 28)
SQ unavoidable
Effect The Reflex DC to reduce or avoid being buried by the
avalanche (see square count 1) increases to DC 21.
85 Squares Enraged, the jinushigami uses its earthquake spelllike
ability to attempt to halt the PCs’ progress.
Type peril; Notice Knowledge (nature) (easy, DC 28),
Spellcraft (easy, DC 28)
Bypass Skills Acrobatics (average, DC 33), Knowledge
(nature) (average, DC 33), Perception (challenging, DC
35), Survival (challenging, DC 35)
SQ limited occurrence (3)
Effect Spell (earthquake; CL 28th, Reflex DC 19)
99 Squares Mere feet away from the shrine, the jinushigami
emerges to confront the PCs.
Type obstacle; Notice Sense Motive (easy, DC 28)
Bypass Skills Bluff (difficult, DC 38), Diplomacy
(challenging, DC 35), Intimidate (very difficult, DC 40),
Knowledge (history) (challenging, DC 35), Knowledge
(local) (challenging, DC 35), or Knowledge (planes)
(challenging, DC 35).
SQ creature (one jinushigami), limited completion (1
primary participant, any number of assistants), limited
occurrence (1)
Effect Blockade (see Pathfinder Roleplaying Game: Bestiary 3);
the kami begins as unfriendly, but does not attack the
PCs unless its attitude becomes hostile. Each successful
skill check made with a bypass skill increases the kami’s
attitude by one step, while each failure by 5 or more
reduces the kami’s attitude by one step. If the PCs manage
to increase the kami’s starting attitude to friendly, it
allows them passage into the shrine and apologizes for
the trouble it caused them.
