title:the-eminent
[[tab The Eminent Mythic Path]]

Through a mixture of excellence and fate, the Eminent are given the opportunity to seize the reins of history. Their knowledge of the world couples with keen deduction and powerful influence to guide events as a scholar, saboteur, or luminary. The words and actions of an Eminent can ripple across the battlefield and greater world, shifting success and failure through a thousand factors.

**Role:** The Eminent can fill a variety of roles but specializes in utilizing their skills, combining information and movement with a variety of effects which can improve the odds of their allies or hamper their enemies. Many Eminent choose to take the Dual PathMA mythic feat, which significantly expands their options.

**Classes:** This mythic path is suitable for any character with progression for skill talents, as well as all champion classes that incorporate Spheres of Guile It can be used by classes that have acquired martial talents through spending feats or by special items like talent crystalsTotS, but characters with these builds may find another mythic path to be more useful.

**Bonus Hit Points:** Whenever you gain an eminent tier, you gain 4 bonus hit points. These hit points stack with themselves, and do not affect your overall Hit Dice or other statistics. These do not stack with the hit points from your Dual PathMA choice (if you take that feat).

+++ Sphere Mastery
At 1st tier, you gain one mythic sphere mastery (see Mythic Sphere Talents). You must know the base sphere associated with it.

+++ Guile Mastery
At 10th tier, you have acquired insight and influence which allows you to seamlessly bend the world to your will. At the start of each turn, you gain a temporary use of skill leverage which lasts until the start of your next turn. In addition, once per round, you may outwit a creature you could not normally outwit.

**Table: The Eminent**
||~ Tier ||~ Path Feature || 
|| 1st || Path ability, sphere mastery || 
|| 2nd || Path ability || 
|| 3rd || Path ability || 
|| 4th || Path ability || 
|| 5th || Path ability || 
|| 6th || Path ability || 
|| 7th || Path ability || 
|| 8th || Path ability || 
|| 9th || Path ability || 
|| 10th || Guile mastery, path ability || 


The Eminent also have access to the following mythic path abilities. Some abilities are originally from other mythic paths (particularly those published by Legendary Games) and may have been changed to fit the Eminent.

**Special:** Mythic operatives may take any mythic path ability or mythic class ability that affects a class feature they have (i.e. something that is specifically included in the ‘Special’ column of a class table), regardless of its original path or class. You must meet any other requirements for that choice, such as minimum mythic tier. With GM permission, universal path abilities that grant spell-like abilities can be taken as normal and are not changed.

++ 1st-Tier Path Abilities

+++ Adamantine Mind (Ex)
Your mind is as hard as any armor and is dangerous to engage. You gain a bonus equal to your tier on saving throws against mind-affecting effects. Whenever you succeed at a save against a mind-affecting effect, the creature attacking you with that effect must succeed at a Will save (at the same DC) or be stunned for 1 round.

+++ A Dizzying Intellect (Ex)
You can use your operative modifier in place of your Charisma modifier on Bluff and Intimidate checks, and add a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier (minimum 1) on each check. When using Intimidate to demoralize an opponent, you may choose for the target to become fascinated rather than shaken by your rapid-fire witty patter. When conversing with a fascinated creature, you can attempt to trick that creature into revealing the answer to a question with a successful Bluff check opposed by the target’s Sense Motive check. If your check succeeds, the target gives a truthful answer a few words long to your question. If your Bluff check beats the target’s Sense Motive check by 5 or more, the target is unaware that it has revealed the answer to your question and you may continue asking questions each round.
If your check succeeds by less than 5, the target realizes it has breached a confidence in revealing the answer to your question and the fascinate effect ends.

+++ Analytical Eye (Ex)
When a creature you can see makes an attack, you can spend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to analyze its fighting style and capabilities. You learn all combat feats (including mythic versions of combat feats) that creature possesses, and may identify feats it did not use. You gain an insight bonus equal to one-half your tier (minimum +1) to AC against that opponent until the end of your next turn. If you use the aid another action, your ally adds this insight bonus to the bonus they gain to their AC or on their next attack roll against that opponent.

+++ Always Prepared
You are immune to poison.

+++ Assured Skill (Ex)
In times of need, you're virtually assured success when using skills. As a free action before you roll a skill check, you can expend one use of mythic power to roll that skill check twice, take the higher result, and add your tier to the total.

+++ Astounding Disable (Ex) 
Whenever you use Disable Device to disarm a trap or open a lock, doing so is only a move action and doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity.

+++ Bountiful Leverage (Ex) (Utility)
Whenever you would regain 1 use of skill leverage, you instead regain 2 uses of skill leverage. 

+++ Combat Trickery (Ex)
Through buffoonery and deceit, you can trick opponents into moving where you want them. You can make a single combat maneuver check using your Bluff check modifier in place of your CMB. Apply the result of this check to all adjacent opponents, and resolve it for each enemy independently as a bull rush, drag, or reposition combat maneuver. For example, if facing three opponents, you can roll one check and attempt to bull rush the first, drag the second, and reposition the third.

+++ Commanding Entrance (Ex) (Utility)
When you first enter an area or make your presence known to a group of strangers, as a free action you can expend one use of mythic power and attempt a single Diplomacy or Intimidate check to modify the attitudes of everyone within 10 feet per tier, and an additional number of characters equal to your Charisma modifier who are outside that range but have line of sight to you. (For instance, you could affect everyone near the entrance of a throne room and key people on the dais at the far end.) Alternatively, when you reveal yourself during the first round of combat (not counting the surprise round), you can expend one use of mythic power as a free action to use Intimidate to demoralize your targets.

+++ Common Sense (Ex)
You can see through prevarications and confabulations and are rarely taken in by chicanery and legerdemain. You gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier (minimum +1) on saving throws against enchantments, and when making a save to end an ongoing non-mythic compulsion, such as hold person or dominate person (though not on your initial saving throw against the effect), you can roll twice and select the better result.
You add your mythic tier as a bonus on Sense Motive checks, and when making an opposed Sense Motive check against a non-mythic creature you may roll twice and select the better result. Creatures trying to influence your behavior with an opposed Charisma check or Diplomacy or Intimidate check take a penalty equal to your mythic tier, and if they are not mythic creatures must roll twice and take the worse result.

+++ Contract (Su) (Utility)
You can seal an agreement with supernatural power. The two parties in the agreement must join hands and willingly state the terms to which they are agreeing, while you expend one use of mythic power (requiring 1 minute). While you use this ability, you and all parties agreeing to the contract can understand one another’s language, and the terms of the deal appear magically on two duplicate scrolls. While making the agreement, each side gains a +10 competence bonus on Sense Motive checks made against the other party in the agreement. Once the terms are agreed, each party accepts a lesser geas (no save) to fulfill the terms of the contract. This function does not occur if either character is under a mind-affecting effect or threat that forces her to consent to the agreement. This compulsion lasts 7 days, starting immediately.
While the lesser geas remains in effect, both copies of the contract remain pristine and unaltered. Should either party attempt to alter their copy of the contract in any way, the other party’s contract shows the attempted alteration in bright red ink. If either contract is destroyed, the other contract becomes sooty and tattered but the effects of the lesser geas remain for both creatures for the remainder of the contract. If any party to the contract removes the lesser geas by magic, the lesser geas is immediately ended for all others.
At 3rd tier, you can expend two uses of mythic power to create a contract with the effect of a geas/quest, but the contract otherwise functions as described above.

+++ Control the Mindless (Su)
You can gain control over mindless constructs and undead. Using this ability is a standard action, and requires you to make a Knowledge check against the target's CMD. Use a Knowledge (arcana) check against a mindless construct, or a Knowledge (religion) check against a mindless undead. If your check equals or exceeds the creature's CMD, you can give the creature an order that lasts up to 1 round. For every 5 by which you beat the DC, your control lasts 1 additional round. The creature's creator or controller can't regain control during this time unless it also uses this ability. If you expend one use of mythic power when attempting to use this ability, the duration of your control increases from rounds to an equal number of minutes.

+++ Crime Spree (Su)
As a standard action when not in combat, you can attempt two Sleight of Hand checks to take items from other creatures, but you take a –5 penalty on each check. As a standard action in combat, you can expend one use of mythic power to attempt a steal combat maneuver check against each creature within your reach that you choose, without provoking attacks of opportunity.

+++ Crafting Mastery (Ex)
You can craft any magic item as if you had the necessary item creation feats. If you actually have the item creation feat needed for a magic item you’re crafting, whenever you attempt a skill check to create that item, roll twice and use the higher result, and you make twice as much progress on the item for any time spent. This ability does not reduce the item’s cost or any other requirements.

+++ Curse-bearer (Ex)
You may touch, wear, wield, or carry a non-mythic cursed item without being affected by the curse. You may choose to be affected by the curse if you wish. Mythic cursed items affect you as normal, but you may expend one use of mythic power as a free action to suppress the effects of the item’s curse on you for one round.

+++ Deadly Dodge (Ex)
As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to gain a +4 dodge bonus to your AC until the start of your next turn. During this time, whenever a creature misses on a melee attack against you, it provokes an attack of opportunity from you. You can choose to either take this attack of opportunity or force that creature to reroll the attack and change the target to a creature of your choice that is adjacent to you and within the attacker's reach. This reroll uses the same modifiers as the initial attack roll.

+++ Deadly Guidance (Ex)
You are able to point out the weak points in an enemy’s defenses, and your allies benefit from your tactical insight. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to designate a single opponent within 30 feet of you. All allies within 30 feet of that opponent gain the sneak attack ability when attacking it, and can thus deal +1d6 points of damage when flanking that opponent or when the opponent is otherwise denied its Dexterity bonus to AC. This sneak attack damage stacks with sneak attack damage from other sources. This ability lasts a number of rounds equal to half your tier (minimum 1). You can take this ability up to four times. Each time you take it, the sneak attack damage from this ability increases by 1d6.

+++ Directed Assault (Ex)
By finding a gap in your enemy’s defenses, you allow your allies to take advantage of your discovery. When you confirm a critical hit with a melee or ranged weapon against an opponent, allies within 30 feet of that opponent add your tier to their critical confirmation rolls against that opponent. This bonus lasts for a number of rounds equal to your tier. During this duration, you can expend one use of mythic power to convert an ally’s successful attack into a critical threat. The ally must be within 30 feet, and can also gain the bonus to its confirmation roll. Only one opponent can be the focus of your directed assault at a time. If you confirm a critical hit against another creature, you may make it the new focus (immediately ending the previous focus) or maintain the current focus.

+++ Defensive Move (Ex) 
Once per round, you can designate one opponent. Unless you attempt to move through that opponent's space, your movement (including standing up from a prone position) doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity from that opponent. If you move through the opponent's space, you can still attempt an Acrobatics check to do so without provoking an attack of opportunity. You can take this ability more than once. Each additional time you select it, you can designate one additional opponent when you move.

+++ Destiny’s Tool (Ex)
Destiny has already chosen your fate and your own whims and desires are irrelevant. Whenever you are encounter an effect or item which has differing effects according to alignment, you may expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to select which alignment you wish to be treated as by that effect. If the effect has a non-instantaneous duration (such as wielding a holy weapon), you are treated as that alignment for the purpose of that effect for a number of hours equal to your mythic tier.

+++ Eidetic Research (Ex) (Utility)
You can remember virtually anything you read or see and access it later to help find answers to questions, or to use existing resources like libraries and laboratories to further your pursuit of knowledge. When you have access to a library (or a laboratory, if dealing with alchemy, constructs, medicine, and item creation), you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on all Knowledge checks, with an additional +2 circumstance bonus if the library or laboratory has a specific focus on the subject of your question. An exceptionally large or well-stocked library or laboratory offers you double these bonuses.
In addition, you can spend 1d4 hours in a library or laboratory poring over texts, tomes, and experiments, expending one use of mythic power to commit the data within to memory. This creates a latent mythic surge stored within your mind, which you can trigger later without expending mythic power at any time within one month when you are making an Intelligence check or a Craft, Knowledge, or Profession skill check. You can store a number of these latent mythic surges equal to your Intelligence modifier plus your mythic tier. If you are faced with a riddle or similar puzzle, you can expend one of these stored mythic surges to gain an additional guess at the correct answer; you do not actually make this guess, but rather are able to successfully evaluate whether or not the guess would be correct.

+++ Engineer (Ex) (Utility)
You can leverage your knowledge of engineering to solve tasks that normally require brute strength, keen eyes, or deft movements. If you spend one minute examining an object or area, you can make a Knowledge (engineering) check in place of a Strength check to break the object or in place of a Perception check to locate hidden doors or compartments in that area, or to add a bonus equal to 1/5 the result of your Knowledge (engineering) check on a Disable Device check. You can spend one use of mythic power to use this ability as a move action. You add your mythic tier as a bonus on typical Knowledge (engineering) checks.

+++ Enhance Magic Items (Ex) 
Your mythic presence enhances the power of certain magic items. Add half your tier to the caster level of potions, scrolls, staves, and wands you use. When using a staff or wand, you may activate the item by expending one use of mythic power instead of one of the item's charges.

+++ Faster than the Eye (Ex) 
Few can trace your expert skills of legerdemain. You can use Sleight of Hand to lift or plant objects as a move action with no penalty. When you use Sleight of Hand to steal something, the target takes a penalty equal to your tier on its Perception check to notice the theft. You can use Sleight of Hand to plant a small object on someone else. When doing so, you use the same method and bonuses as you would for lifting the same item.

+++ Fast Bargainer (Ex)
As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to make a Bluff, Diplomacy, Intimidate, or Sense Motive check to interact with any number of creatures within 10 feet per tier. Add your tier to the result.

+++ Flash of Omniscience (Ex)
Your ability to recall information is astounding. When you take 10 on any Intelligence-based skill check, add your tier to the result. As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to ask one question as if using the Divine Knowledge advanced Divination talent. The base chance for a correct answer is 70% + your caster level + your tier (maximum 100%). The answer does not come from a divine agent, but from your own native understanding; therefore, the answer is never cryptic. If you do not get a correct answer, it is like failing a Knowledge check, and you cannot use this ability on that question again.

+++ Focus (Su) 
Your mighty and inspiring presence enhances the power of your companions' heroic surges. Whenever a mythic ally that is within 30 feet uses the surge ability, it rolls its bonus die twice and takes the higher result.

+++ Granted Stride (Ex) 
Your mythic grace means that you and your allies easily pass through undergrowth at full speed. Allies within 30 feet of you gain the benefits of woodland stride (as the ranger class feature), as long as they can see and hear you. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to allow allies within 30 feet to ignore naturally occurring difficult terrain in any of your favored terrains for 1 minute per tier. You must have the woodland stride and favored terrain class features to select this ability.

+++ Greater Surge (Su)
Your surge is more powerful than most. Treat your tier as if it were 3 higher for the purpose of determining your mythic surge die (maximum 10th tier). When you gain your 10th tier, your surge die becomes 2d8.

+++ Hear Heartbeat (Ex)
You can hear the heartbeat of living creatures that have a heartbeat within 5 feet times your mythic tier, allowing you to pinpoint their location as if you had blindsense. You cannot detect oozes, plants, or amorphous or incorporeal creatures with this ability. Being able to hear a creature’s heartbeat grants you a +2 circumstance bonus on Sense Motive checks, and you can expend one use of mythic power as a standard action to use discern lies (DC 14 + your operative modifier + your mythic tier), using your mythic tier as your caster level; this functions as the spell but is non-magical.

+++ Heirloom (Ex)
You gain a legendary item that is an ancestral relic of your house, family, or culture. This functions as the legendary item universal path ability described in Mythic Adventures, but you are so protective of this item that you add your mythic tier as a bonus to CMD against disarm, steal, and sunder combat maneuvers directed at the item, and one-half your mythic tier as a bonus on saving throws made by the item. You can take this ability again at 3rd and 6th tier to grant additional abilities to your heirloom item. You can have both an heirloom and a legendary item; however, the total number of legendary abilities between the two items combined cannot exceed your mythic tier +3.

+++ Helpful Rebuke (Ex) 
You are quick with stern yet helpful words of advice. Whenever an ally within line of sight fails a skill check with a skill you're trained in, you can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to allow that ally to reroll that skill check with a bonus equal to your tier. If the new roll is successful, your ally succeeds at that check instead of failing it. The ally who failed the skill check must be able to see and hear you to gain this reroll. You can use this ability with a skill you aren't trained in, but you must expend two uses of mythic power to do so, and the ally doesn't gain your tier as a bonus on the reroll.

+++ Honor Between Thieves
You cannot be robbed (including by mythic characters, unless they have at least three more tiers than you). Any possessions you carry simply cannot be stolen, although this does not extend to objects not currently on you or within 10 feet per tier. Your items can still be destroyed. Any attempt to swindle or cheat you out of your possessions is immediately obvious to you.

+++ If I Can, So Can You (Su)
If an ally within 30 feet fails on a saving thrown against an effect and you successfully save against the same effect, you can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to replace the result of their saving throw roll with your own (though they apply their own modifiers to that saving throw, rather than using yours). You may expend mythic power to affect multiple allies within 30 feet as part of the same immediate action at a cost of one additional use of mythic power for each ally after the first.

+++ Impeccable Balance (Ex) 
Even the smallest of handholds and outcroppings are more than sufficient for your purposes. You automatically succeed at all Acrobatics checks to walk along narrow ledges. Your Acrobatics checks never take a penalty because of obstructed, slippery, sloped, or unsteady surfaces, and you can move at full speed across such surfaces with no penalty. You also gain a +10 bonus to CMD against trip attacks.

+++ Improbable Prestidigitation (Su)
You can attempt a Sleight of Hand check to hide or retrieve objects in a personal extradimensional space, similar to a glove of storing. You can take 10 or 20 on this check, and the space can hold up to 1 cubic foot of material per tier. An item the size of a potion or dagger can be stored or retrieved with a successful DC 20 Sleight of Hand check; the DC increases to 25 for an item roughly the size of a one-handed weapon. Storing an item is a swift action, and retrieving it is a move action. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to retrieve any number of items from your extradimensional space.

+++ Innocent Bystander (Ex)
When you are flat-footed or prone, non-mythic creatures with Intelligence 3 or greater regard you as harmless and unimportant, not worth their time to attack, unless they succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + your tier + your Charisma modifier). This effect functions similarly to sanctuary, and if you take an offensive action it is suppressed for 1 minute, though you can renew the effect as a move action after taking an offensive action by expending one use of your mythic power.
Whenever an opponent makes an attack of opportunity against you, you can expend one use of your mythic power as a free action to cause it to believe that a different creature it threatens performed the action that provoked the attack of opportunity. If it fails a Will save (DC as above), it redirects its attack to target that creature instead.
You can use this ability in a similar fashion immediately after attacking a creature or after a failed Bluff, Diplomacy, or Intimidate check, causing the target of your attack or the creature with whom you were interacting when making the check to succeed on a Will save (DC as above) or believe the attack or failed check was made by a different creature that threatens it (for a melee attack) or within 30 feet (for a ranged attack or skill check). How the target responds to that attack or failed check is not under your control, but if made hostile its ire is directed at the creature you designate.
If you perform an action that would cause you to lose honor or that would adversely affect your reputation (as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Campaign), you can expend one or more uses of mythic power while performing that action while designating a creature within 30 feet with at least Intelligence 3. If that creature fails a Will save (DC as above), you decrease the amount of honor or reputation you lose by an amount equal to the number of uses of mythic power you expend, while the creature you designate loses that amount of honor or reputation.

+++ Insightful Calculus (Ex) (Utility)
You use your Intelligence modifier when making Disable Device, Perception, Profession, Sense Motive, and Use Magic Device skill checks, as well as Diplomacy checks to gather information, and you may attempt skill checks in these skills even if untrained. If you gain a competence or insight bonus to one of those skills, that bonus is increased by 2.

+++ Insightful Interaction (Ex) (Utility)
Add half your tier to Wisdom-based skill checks in which you are trained. Additionally, by expending one use of mythic power, you can use your Wisdom modifier plus half your tier in place of your Charisma modifier for Bluff, Diplomacy, and Intimidate checks for 1 hour.

+++ Inspire Minions (Ex)
Whenever you use a spell, sphere ability, bardic performance, or another class feature to grant a morale or competence bonus, the bonus increases by 2 for creatures with at least 4 Hit Dice fewer than you. For example, if you're a 6th-level bard using inspire courage, creatures with 2 Hit Dice or fewer receive a +4 morale bonus on fear saves and a +4 competence bonus on attack and weapon damage rolls instead of +2.

+++ Inspire Trust (Ex)
You can inspire instant trust in those you meet. As a swift or immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to make a Diplomacy check to improve a non-mythic creature’s attitude toward you. There is no maximum on how much its attitude can improve at once this way. If you are in combat but have not attacked the target, you must expend an additional use of mythic power and the DC is increased by the target’s Hit Dice. You cannot affect a target that knows you have ever attacked it.

+++ Inspired Advice (Ex)
You can tap into skills and practical knowledge you do not possess, drawing sudden inspiration from the whispered voices, prophetic dreams, and interconnected thoughts of your patron and those with whom you are bound. Once per day when you expend a mythic surge, you can roll twice and take the better result.
In addition, you can select one of the following skills at each mythic tier: Craft (select one), Disable Device, Knowledge (select one), Linguistics, Perform (select one), Profession (select one). You can make untrained skill checks in that skill, and if you are trained you can add a bonus equal to 1d6-1 whenever you make a check with your chosen skill(s). If you expend a mythic surge as part of a skill check for one of your chosen skills, you can roll twice and take the better result.
If you possess the inspiration class feature, it functions as if you were 4 levels higher.

+++ Knowledgeable Guardian (Su)
Add double your tier as a bonus on Knowledge checks you attempt to identify monsters, including checks made to learn any special powers and vulnerabilities. As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to telepathically communicate the knowledge you obtain from this check to all allies within 100 feet.

+++ Lend Power (Su) 
You are an invaluable asset to your comrades. As an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power or your confidence ability (see page 42) to grant the benefit of your surge ability to a mythic ally within 30 feet. The ally uses your surge die.

+++ Lesson Learned (Ex)
Whenever you fail a saving throw against a supernatural or spell-like ability, you gain a +5 bonus on all further saving throws against that ability, including subsequent saves against an ongoing effect, or against the same effect produced by a different source or creature. This bonus lasts for a number of minutes equal to your tier. For example, if you fail a save against a demon’s fireball spell-like ability, you gain this bonus against a fireball spell-like ability from any creature; if you fail a save against a blue dragon’s electricity breath weapon, you gain this bonus against all blue dragon electricity breath weapons, but not against a black dragon’s acid breath weapon or a gorgon’s petrification breath weapon. If you fail another saving throw against the same ability, the duration of lesson learned resets but the bonus doesn’t stack with itself.

+++ Leveraged Excellence (Ex)
As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to attempt a feat of leverage, gaining a +20 circumstance bonus on one skill check made using a skill you’ve unlocked leverage with. 

+++ Make Fool (Ex)
You may spend one use of mythic power as a free action to give all creatures within 30 feet per mythic rank the impressed condition for 1 minute, but only for the purpose of outwitting them (they do not count as impressed for any other purposes). A creature cannot gain the impressed condition in this way more than once every 24 hours.

+++ Manufactory (Ex) (Utility)
When you are crafting magic items, you add 1,000 gp times your mythic tier to the maximum gp value of items you can create each day, and you can work simultaneously on a number of items equal to one-half your mythic tier (minimum 1). When using the Craft skill, you may roll twice and select the better result for determining your weekly progress, and the result of the skill check indicates your progress in gp rather than sp.

+++ Master Dilettante (Ex) (Utility)
You are passingly familiar with almost every subject and have dabbled in numerous fields and activities. You gain a competence bonus equal to your tier on all untrained skill checks. You can attempt all skill checks untrained, even if the skill normally cannot be used untrained.

+++ Master of Escape (Su) 
You can use the Escape Artist skill to break free from spells and magical effects that limit your movement or actions. While you're subject to a spell or effect that gives you the entangled, grappled, paralyzed, pinned, staggered, or stunned condition, once per round as a free action, you can attempt an Escape Artist check to end the condition. The DC for this check is equal to the save DC of the spell or effect that caused the condition. If you succeed, you end one such condition on yourself (your choice), though this doesn't make you immune to similar effects from the same source (such as moving through black tentacles or web). If the spell or effect doesn't allow a saving throw, you can't use this ability to overcome it.

+++ Menacing Presence (Su) 
Something about you puts others on edge. You can attempt an Intimidate check to influence a creature's attitude as full-round action instead of it taking 1 minute. In combat, you can attempt an Intimidate check to demoralize an opponent as a move action. If you expend one use of mythic power, you can attempt to use Intimidate to demoralize all enemies within 30 feet as a standard action, or as a move action if using the Dazzling Display feat

+++ Mythic Skill Training (Ex) (Utility)
You gain access to mythic exploits in a single skill of your choice. If you already qualify for access to mythic exploits with that skill, you gain access to greater mythic exploits too. This path ability may be selected multiple times, each time selecting a different skill.

+++ Nimble Glide (Ex) 
Whenever you fall, you don't take any damage and you land on your feet. When using this ability, you fall at a rate of 150 feet per round, and can move up to 5 feet horizontally for every 10 feet you fall.

+++ No One of Consequence (Ex) (Utility)
Your mythic nature is a cloak that can shield you from the minds and memories of others. Creatures struggle to recognize you, recall your appearance, remember the nature of conversations they had with you, and recount the actions you took when you were in their presence. If a creature makes a deliberate attempt to recall details about time spent with you, it must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + your tier + your operative modifier) to recall anything beyond vague details. In addition, you're under a permanent nondetection effect with a caster level equal to your character level plus your tier. You can end this effect at any time, and can resume it as a swift action.

+++ None of Your Business (Su)
When a creature uses a divination effect against you, you are aware of it and can make an Intimidate check as an immediate action to demoralize the creator of the effect. If you succeed, the creator of the effect must succeed on a concentration check with a DC equal to the result of your Intimidate check or the divination spell ends. In addition, you can expend one use of your mythic power as an immediate action to use misdirection or nondetection on yourself, using character level plus your mythic tier as your caster level.

+++ Path Dabbling (Su)
Select one path ability from another mythic path. You must meet any other requirements that path ability has, including a minimum tier restriction.

+++ Perfect Aid (Ex)
Whenever you successfully use the aid another action, your ally also adds your tier to the aid another bonus. If you use your surge ability on the aid another roll, add the result of the surge die to this bonus as well.

+++ Perfect Polyglot (Ex/Sp)
Whenever you encounter a language you don’t know, you can absorb its nuances at incredible speed, and you think fluidly in all languages you know. Attempts to read your thoughts automatically fail unless a creature understands all languages you know. You add your mythic tier on Linguistics checks, and when you use a language-dependent effect the save DC is increased by 2. This improves the effect of language-dependent effects that you use but does not allow you to use abilities that for which your actual level does not qualify you. You can expend one use of mythic power to use comprehend languages, share language, or tongues as spell-like abilities, using your mythic tier as your caster level. You can expend additional mythic power to use the mythic version of those spells.

+++ Persuasive Countenance (Su) (Utility)
Whenever you encounter a creature whose attitude is at least indifferent to you, treat its attitude as one step better. If the creature's starting attitude is helpful, you can make requests of the creature with a +5 bonus on your Diplomacy or Intimidate check.

+++ Potent Message (Ex) (Utility)
You can expend one use of mythic power to create a song, oration, poem, or joke that contains information that you want to spread. This can include points of fact or simple instructions. You only need to perform the work once (which takes 1d4 hours to complete); thereafter it will spread through the community by itself. For 1 day per tier, all nonmythic beings that hear this message (whether from you or someone else) are compelled to spread it to others by slipping it naturally into conversation or otherwise bringing it up. Anyone who has heard this message takes a –4 penalty on opposed Diplomacy, Intimidate, or Sense Motive checks against you when you request that they to carry out duties related to this message. This is a language-dependent effect. At 6th tier or higher, you can expend one additional use of mythic power to make this work universally understandable, regardless of any language barriers.

+++ Probable Path (Ex)
You have an amazing knack for combining careful analysis with intuitive leaps to puzzle your way through difficult situations. You never become hopelessly lost, and once per day per mythic tier, you can add both your Intelligence and Wisdom modifiers to the result of any Intelligence or Wisdom check, Intelligence or Wisdom-based skill check, or Will save. If you add a mythic surge to a roll of these types, you roll the surge die twice and select the better result. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to apply your operative modifier in place of your Dexterity modifier to your AC and on Reflex saves for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier.

+++ Redirect Attention (Ex) (Utility)
You can expend one use of mythic power to direct the attention of a number of creatures equal to your tier within line of sight toward a location or general direction you choose—and away from others. Non-mythic creatures automatically turn toward the point you choose. Mythic targets receive a Will saving throw to resist this effect (DC 10 + your tier + your operative modifier). The effect persists for 1 round per tier, during which time affected targets receive a +5 bonus on Perception checks to notice anything unusual within a 60-foot-cone in the direction you indicate and a –15 penalty on Perception checks to notice anything elsewhere. This effect counts as a diversion to hide for creatures attempting to use Stealth in any area other than the location you directed attention toward.

+++ Repair (Ex/Su)
You can repair objects and constructs with minimal effort. As a full-round action, you can attempt a DC 20 Disable Device check to repair 2d4 points of damage to an adjacent damaged object, adding an additional 1d4 points of damage for every 5 points by which you exceed the DC. You cannot repair objects that have been completely destroyed. You add your mythic tier as a bonus on this check. If you expend one use of mythic power, you can make a repair as a swift action on an adjacent object, or as a full-round action on an object up to 5 feet times your mythic tier away from you, or you may repair a destroyed object as if using make whole, with a caster level equal to your mythic tier.

+++ Sage Scholar (Ex) (Utility)
You can select a number of specialized areas of knowledge equal to your mythic tier. You gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on Appraise, Knowledge, Linguistics, and Perform checks related to that specialty, as well as Diplomacy checks to gather information about it. Your specific area of knowledge is typically a single kind of creature (such as frost giants, not all giants or all humanoids), nation or region, religion, culture, or type of object or artifact. You also apply this bonus on Spellcraft and Use Magic Device checks made with magic items associated with your specialty, and you can expend one use of mythic power to identify objects of that type.

At 3rd tier and above you can take this ability a second time, allowing you to take 10 on any of the above skill checks related to your specialties. You can expend one use of mythic power to treat the result of such a skill check as a natural 20, and you can expend three uses of mythic power to use legend lore to uncover information about your specialty. Your identify and legend lore abilities function as those spells, using your mythic tier as your caster level, but are extraordinary abilities.

+++ Secrets of the Multiverse (Ex)
The secrets of the countless planes of existence are revealed to you. You gain a bonus equal to your tier on all Knowledge skill checks and you can attempt all Knowledge checks untrained.

+++ Shadow Stealth (Ex)
Whenever you're in darkness, you can move at full speed within that area without taking a penalty on Stealth checks. As a move action, you can expend one use of mythic power to teleport from one area of darkness to another within 100 feet as if using greater teleport. You must have line of effect to the destination.

+++ Sinister Seduction (Su) (Utility)
You bind a non-mythic helpless creature’s mind and heart to you, breaking its will, bending its mind, and reshaping its thought to be your willing, obedient minion. This mental conditioning requires multiple successful Intimidate checks. Each check requires 8 hours of interaction with the creature (reduced to 1 hour if you expend one use of your mythic power), which can range from conversation to whispering in its ear as it sleeps to outright torture. Only bonuses that apply for the entire 8 hours (or 1 hour) apply to the check. A creature imprisoned with no reasonable hope of escape is considered helpless for the purpose of this ability. Using this ability is often an evil act, though some bound may use it to attempt to redeem evil creatures and curb their viler impulses.
You must succeed on a number of successful Intimidate checks equal to the target’s Hit Dice plus its Wisdom modifier. If it has a permanent bonus on saving throws against fear, add a number equal to this bonus to the number of successful checks required. Each time you fail an Intimidate check, you add two to the number of checks required to break the target’s will. If you ever fail three consecutive checks, the number of successful checks reverts to zero and you must begin again.
Once you successfully complete the required number of Intimidate checks, the creature swears to you a Vow of Obedience (see below; monk vows are described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Ultimate Magic). As long as your minion can see and hear you, as a standard action you can cause it to become exhausted, nauseated, panicked, or paralyzed for 1 minute times your mythic tier. A successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your level + your mythic rank or tier + your operative modifier) negates this effect. You can do this as often as you wish, but if you do it more than once per day the save DC decreases by 2 each time after the first. If your minion is wearing some object bearing your symbol, you may expend one use of your mythic power when tormenting him in this way, forcing him to roll his saving throw twice and take the worse result.
Breaking this vow causes your minion to break down mentally, falling unconscious for a number of minutes equal to your tier after taking the offending action. When your minion awakens, it is shaken for a number of hours equal to your mythic rank or tier but it can attempt a saving throw (as above) to break free of its vow.
You may command any number of minions in this way, so long as their total HD do not exceed twice your level plus twice your mythic tier. This is a mind-affecting effect but is not magical and cannot be dispelled, though it can be removed by greater restoration, limited wish, miracle, wish, or repeated use of modify memory (a number of castings equal to the number of successful Intimidate checks made when breaking the target’s will). The mental compulsion can be detected with a successful Sense Motive check against a DC of 25 plus the mythic tier of the creature’s master.

+++ Skeptical Eye (Ex)
You gain a bonus equal to your mythic tier on Sense Motive checks and on Perception checks made to oppose Disguise or Sleight of Hand checks. You gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier (minimum +1) on saves against illusions, and against illusions that allow disbelief you are automatically allowed a saving throw to disbelieve if the spell’s level is lower than your mythic tier.

+++ Sniper's Riposte (Ex) 
You're an expert at defending yourself while aiming a ranged weapon. You don't provoke attacks of opportunity from making ranged attacks. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to negate the Stealth check penalty for sniping for 1 round.

+++ Subtle Magic (Ex) 
Whenever you cast a spell or activate a spell trigger or spell completion magic item, you can attempt a Bluff skill check opposed by a Sense Motive check from anyone that can see you. Those who fail the opposed check don't know that you cast a spell or activated an item unless it has an obvious effect that emanates from you. In addition, the magical auras of magical effects on you and magic items you carry (except for artifacts) can't be detected.

+++ Sudden Adoption (Ex)
You may adopt an approach as a free action by spending a use of mythic power instead of using the approach’s normal adoption time. If you have the Unflappable Approach path ability, you may spend a use of mythic power to enter two approaches as part of the same free action.

+++ Sudden Reveal (Ex)
You may reveal a plan as a swift action by spending a use of mythic power instead of using the plan’s normal reveal time. 

+++ Supreme Stealth (Ex)
Choose one of the following senses: blindsight, scent, or tremorsense. A creature using the chosen sense can't automatically detect you, and must succeed at Perception checks as normal to do so. If you choose blindsight, this ability also affects blindsense. You can select this ability up to three times, each time choosing a different sense.

+++ Take a Breather (Ex)
When subject to a spell or effect that heals hit point damage or ability damage, if you take no actions other than movement in the following round you are healed again at the end of your next turn an amount equal to 50% of the all hit point or ability damage healed in the previous round.

+++ The Road Goes Ever On (Su) (Utility)
You are a skilled traveler, inured to long journeys and heavy loads. You add your mythic tier to your Strength score to determine your carrying capacity, and you (and any mount you ride) add your mythic tier to the number of hours per day you can hustle or forced march when traveling overland before you risk taking nonlethal damage or becoming fatigued (see Chapter 7 of the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook for details on encumbrance and overland travel). You can expend one use of your mythic power to remove the fatigued condition from yourself or an ally by touch, and if your ally has nonlethal damage incurred from a hustle, forced march, or similar exertion, you also cure an amount of that nonlethal damage equal to your surge die plus your mythic tier.

+++ This Might Just Work (Ex) (Utility)
You're adept at combining optimistic resourcefulness with natural skill. You can attempt a skill check with a class skill in place of a skill that uses the same ability score modifier. For example, you could attempt an Acrobatics check in place of a Stealth check because both skills are based on Dexterity. You take a –5 penalty on this check and can't take 10 or 20 on it. The GM can disallow certain uses of this ability when the skill can't possibly be applied to the task.

+++ Thwart Detection (Su) (Utility)
You can bypass magical constructs, spells, and traps that are meant to allow only certain creatures to move or act within their range. This includes constructs, spells, and traps that can be bypassed with a password as well as those that can be programmed to exclude specific creatures based on type or other physical characteristics (such as alarm, forbiddance, glyph of warding, and symbol of death). You must be aware of the construct, spell, or trap's existence, though not necessarily its specific parameters, for this ability to function. For instance, you can't bypass a trap you haven't noticed. You can fool a mindless construct if it was programmed to allow certain creatures to enter its area without provoking a response, but not if it was ordered to prevent anyone from entering with no exceptions. If you expend one use of mythic power for each effect, you can bring with you a number of allies equal to your tier. They must remain within 10 feet of you until out of range of the bypassed effect.

+++ Transfer Magic (Su) 
Your mythic nature allows you to take magic from others as easily as you could take their gold. By expending one use of mythic power as a standard action, you can make a melee touch attack to transfer an active magical effect from a target creature to you. If you succeed, the highest-level effect on the target transfers to you (determine randomly if the target has multiple effects with the same level), ending the effect for the target and continuing it on you with the remaining duration as if you were the original target. You may end the effect on yourself as a standard action; this doesn't cause it to revert to the original target. If the transferred magic can't affect you (for example, if it doesn't affect creatures of your type), it ends immediately as if dispelled. You can't use this ability to transfer continuous bonuses from magic items, such as an armor bonus from bracers of armor.

+++ Trap Taker (Ex) (Utility)
You can use the Use Magic Device skill instead of Disable Device to disable magical traps. If your Use Magic Device check overcomes the DC to disable the trap by 5 or more, you can instead leave the trap in place, but change it so that you and your allies can bypass it. You can also alter the trap so the original creator and any creatures he might have designated as safe instead set off the trap. If you expend one use of mythic power when altering a trap in this way, you can move the trap to any point within 100 feet that is in line of sight.

+++ Tricks of the Trade (Ex)
Select one Profession skill and two regular skills, which must have something in common; discuss with your GM how those skills that might be connected in the context of your character’s background. You can use your bonus in the Profession skill in place of his bonus in the associated skills. When substituting in this way, you use your total Profession skill bonus, including class skill bonus, in place of the associated skills even if he has no ranks in those skills.

+++ Trusty Tools (Su)
When you use a tool of your trade (requiring at least 1 rank in the appropriate Craft or Profession skill) as a weapon you take no penalties for using an improvised weapon. In addition, that weapon gains an enhancement bonus equal to half your mythic tier (minimum +1), and its critical threat range is increased by 1 for every 2 mythic tiers you possess. Your tool’s hardness is increased by an amount equal to your mythic tier as long as it is on your person, and you can expend one use of mythic power as a standard action to grant the item 5 temporary hit points per mythic tier you possess.

+++ Unfocused Focus (Ex)
If you have more than one class, you may select a single class ability (other than spellcasting) from one of your classes (such as wildshape, channel energy, or sneak attack). You may treat your class level for that ability as up to 4 higher than your class level in that class, up to a maximum equivalent class level equal to your Hit Dice.

+++ Unorthodox Tactics (Ex)
When you take a readied action, you may take an additional move action before or after your readied standard action. In addition, your unorthodox tactics confound your enemies, negating any competence, insight, or morale bonuses they would gain against you until the end of your next turn.

+++ Unspeakable Name (Su/Sp) (Utility)
Like demon lords and the witch-kings of legend, you know when others dare to speak of you or your fell deeds. You hear your name and title whenever it is spoken, regardless of distance, and you can expend one use of your mythic power to use scrying as a spell-like ability targeting the creature speaking your name. If your scrying is successful, you can expend an additional use of mythic power to deliver a message to the target as sending. If you have at least 3 mythic ranks or tiers, this ability functions across planar boundaries. Expending one use of mythic power allows you to use greater scrying on the speaker instead. If you succeed in scrying on the target, you can spend one additional use of mythic power to use project image as a spell-like ability. The image appears at the location of the scrying sensor, which is considered the point of origin of the spell. If your scrying sensor is dispelled, so is the project image.
If you have at least 6 mythic ranks or tiers, if you successfully scry on a creature you can also read its mind as detect thoughts, and you can spend one additional use of your mythic power to discern location on the speaker. If a creature says your name three times in a single breath, you learn that creature’s true name.

+++ Unwavering Skill (Ex) (Utility)
You can always take 10 or 20 on class skills, even if threatened or in a hazardous situation. You can't use this ability with skill checks that don't normally allow you to take 10 or take 20.

++ 3rd-Tier Path Abilities

+++ Aura of Perseverance (Ex) 
Your leadership keeps your allies going even when they're at death's door. Allies within 30 feet of you don't become unconscious or disabled when reduced to 0 hit points or fewer. As soon as you and an ally at 0 hit points or fewer are more than 30 feet apart, that ally becomes unconscious or disabled. You can expend one use of mythic power to stabilize all dying allies within 30 feet and let all allies within this range ignore the staggered condition for a number of rounds equal to your tier.

+++ Accidental Observation (Ex)
If you have the trapfinding class feature, you automatically gain the trap spotter rogue talent. In addition, whenever you must make a reactive Perception check (that is, in response to another creature’s action), you may roll twice and take the highest result. If a successful Perception check would allow you to act in a surprise round, you are not denied your Dexterity bonus during the surprise round (if you already have uncanny dodge, you gain a dodge bonus to your AC during the surprise round equal to one-half your mythic tier (minimum +1)), and you may expend one use of your mythic power to treat your initiative roll for that combat as a natural 20.

+++ Binding Counter (Ex)
When you hit a target with an attack, you can expend one use of mythic power as a free action to bind your mythic destiny to that creature for a number of rounds equal to your mythic tier. Whenever that creature expends mythic power during that time, as an immediate action you can expend an equal number of uses of mythic power to negate the opponent’s mythic ability. If you already have used your immediate action for the round or wish to conserve your immediate action, you still can use this ability but must spend an additional use of mythic power to do so. If your opponent was attempting to use a power with limited uses per day, the negated use does not count against that number. You must be aware of the opponent, and the opponent’s mythic rank or tier must be lower than yours or this ability has no effect.

+++ Blade of Reason (Ex)
When you successfully identify a creature with a Knowledge check, attacks you make against that creature are treated as if you were wielding a weapon with the bane property against that opponent for a number of rounds equal to one-half your mythic tier. If you expend one use of your mythic power when using this ability, this bane property applies against all creatures of the same type (and subtype, if applicable) as the creature you identified. You must have the knowledgeable guardian path ability as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures in order to select this ability.

+++ Caster's Friend (Ex) 
You bolster the concentration of spellcasting allies standing next to you. A spellcaster who is adjacent to you gains a bonus on concentration checks equal to your tier. Furthermore, if a spellcaster fails a concentration check while adjacent to you, as an immediate action you can expend one use of mythic power to allow that spellcaster to instead automatically succeed at that concentration check.

+++ Commanding Presence (Ex)
Your force of presence is so overwhelming that others know what you want and can comprehend what you are saying even if they don't understand the words you speak. You can use your body language and tone of voice alone to ask questions and make statements to those who don't know your language. When they answer or respond to your communications, you must succeed at a DC 20 Sense Motive check to get the general idea of what they are saying in return. Furthermore, when you use a spell or ability with the language-dependent descriptor, you can still affect creatures that cannot understand the language you are using, but they must be able to hear you and must have an Intelligence score of 1 or higher.

+++ Confidence (Su) 
You can draw upon a deep reserve of confidence in times of need. You can call on confidence three times per day to use the surge mythic ability without expending one use of mythic power. You can select this ability up to three times. Each additional time you select it, you gain three additional uses of confidence per day.

+++ Critical Skill (Su) (Utility)
Whenever you roll a natural 20 on a skill check, you perform that skill with exceptional proficiency. Typically, this means that the task takes half the normal amount of time to accomplish. If the skill would normally take a full-round action, it instead takes a standard action. If it would normally take a standard or move action, it instead takes a swift action. If it would normally take a swift or free action, it instead takes no time at all. The GM might rule that instead of reducing the amount of time needed, using the skill takes the normal amount of time but the critical success results in some other added benefit, depending on the skill being used and the situation.

+++ Demagogue (Su) (Utility)
You have an unnatural ability to call and sway crowds with your commanding presence and flawless rhetoric. When in a small town or larger settlement, you can expend one use of mythic power to gather a crowd (Core Rulebook 436). Doing so takes 4d10 minutes. Add your tier to your Charisma bonus and then multiply the sum by 5 to determine how many creatures are in the crowd (as long as the settlement has a sufficient population to provide a crowd of that size, as determined by the GM). For example, a 4th-tier marshal with a +6 bonus to Charisma could gather as many as 50 creatures. The crowd remains for 1 hour, and you gain a +10 competence bonus on Diplomacy and Intimidate checks to direct the crowd. You can expend another use of mythic power to extend the effect for another hour. This is a language-dependent effect.

+++ Dispel Fear (Su) 
You can rally your allies and relieve their fear. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to either end all fear effects affecting allies within 30 feet of you, or end all fear effects on one ally within line of sight who can clearly see you and hear you.

+++ Don't Cross Me (Ex) (Utility)
Even when you're away from your thralls, they fear and obey you. When you successfully use Intimidate to make someone helpful, you can expend one use of mythic power to cause the creature to remain helpful to you even in your absence for up to a number of days equal to your tier. At the beginning of each day, the creature may attempt a Will save; if it succeeds, this effect ends prematurely (DC equal to the result of your original Intimidate check minus 2 for each day since the creature last had direct contact with you). This is a mind-affecting fear effect.

+++ Elementary Deduction (Ex)
You can learn enough about a creature through observation to deduce what it is likely to do and the most effective way to deal with it. You may use your Intelligence modifier in place of your Wisdom modifier on Sense Motive and Survival checks, and if you add a mythic surge to a Knowledge check to identify the creature you roll the surge die twice and take the better result. When attempting to follow a creature that you have observed for at least 1 round during the past 24 hours, you can expend one use of your mythic power to gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier on Bluff, Diplomacy, Intimidate, Knowledge, Perception, Sense Motive, and Survival checks against or about that creature, as well as on attack rolls or caster level checks made against that creature. This bonus lasts for 24 hours or until you select a new creature upon which to focus.

+++ Esoteric Order (Ex) (Utility)
You have connections to a network of secret societies and hidden clubs and coteries with an interest in the occult. Knowing many of the tropes of such organizations and details of their rituals grants you a competence bonus equal to your tier on Bluff and Disguise checks to pass yourself off as a member of such a secret society.
In addition, when in an urban area you can spend 1 hour and one use of mythic power to gain a temporary contact who is a member of a secret society who may owe you certain favors. This contact aids you for a number of days equal to your tier. Your Trust level with this contact is equal to one-half your mythic tier. If you already have a contact, you can instead expend one use of mythic power to increase that contact’s Trust by one for a number of days equal to your tier.
In addition to the normal uses for contacts, you can have your contact seek out information for you, allowing you to make a Diplomacy check to gather information. Your contact spends 1d4 hours and uses your Diplomacy modifier for this check, with a +2 circumstance bonus if the check relates to psychic magic, occultism, or similar topics. You do not need to spend time or money to make the check.
You also can have your contact spread rumors about a specific named character, family, or organization, accusing them of witchcraft, involvement in the occult, membership in secret covens, and other questionable or scandalous activities. These rumors cause any creatures not already helpful toward that creature or group to have their attitude toward them moved one step negatively. This effect lasts for a number of days equal to your tier or until the target or member of that group spends 8 hours refuting the rumors with a successful Diplomacy check (DC 10 + your operative modifier + your mythic tier).
Rather than seeking out the kind of information typically available with Diplomacy, you can expend one use of mythic power and have your contact research esoteric and mysterious occult lore regarding a specific question for 1d4 hours, allowing you to receive an informative but possibly cryptic answer, as if you had cast divination with a caster level equal to twice your mythic tier. If you are at least 6th mythic tier, you can instead expend two uses of mythic power to gain the answers to a number of questions equal to one-third your tier (as divination) or learn more information about a single topic (as legend lore).

+++ Feather Step (Su)
Your steps are deft and always sure. You gain a bonus on Acrobatics checks equal to your tier. You can move at full speed across any narrow or uneven surface, and can run across fragile surfaces that can't hold your weight (including liquids) without peril as long as you end your turn on a solid surface. You leave no tracks (as pass without trace), and ignore adverse effects from nonmagical difficult terrain and ground hazards, including caltrops. As an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to balance on razor edges and pinpoints, allowing you to ignore damage from spiked pit traps and similar hazards for a number of rounds equal to your tier.

+++ Flexible Confidence (Ex) 
Your resolve is more useful than others'. You can expend the uses of your confidence ability as uses of mythic power for the purposes of your eminent path abilities.

+++ Forsake Fate (Su)
You confound and frustrate those who seek to drive your destiny. Divinations that would reveal information about your future automatically fail unless they are mythic effects. Creatures that would normally gain an insight or luck bonus against you or against an effect you create instead take a penalty equal to the bonus they would normally receive. In addition, you are immune to effects that would force you to reroll a die roll or to roll two or more times and take the worst result unless it is a mythic effect, and you can expend one use of your mythic power as a free action to negate mythic effects of this type.

+++ Many Forms (Su)
You can alter your appearance at will as if using the Blank Form of the Alteration sphere (this does not allow you to gain traits aside from the +10 bonus to Disguise checks, or similar cosmetic changes with your GM’s permission). You can expend one use of mythic power to change your shape as if using the Alteration sphere and any three Alteration talents (whether or not you know those talents), with a duration of 1 minute per tier. Your caster level for this ability is a number equal to 10 + your tier. At 6th tier, the duration of this shapeshift increases to 10 minutes per tier.

+++ Menacing Whisper (Ex) 
Whenever you're adjacent to a creature that can't see you (whether through Stealth, magic, or the creature being unable to see) but can hear you, as a swift action you can attempt an Intimidate check to demoralize that creature. You can expend one use of mythic power as a free action to give such a creature a suggestion as the spell (caster level equal to twice your mythic tier). The save DC against this effect is 10 + your tier + your operative modifier.

+++ Mirror Dodge (Su) 
When hit by a melee or ranged attack, you can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to replace yourself with an illusory duplicate and teleport to any open square within 30 feet of your current position. You take no damage from this attack, which instead destroys your illusory duplicate (similar to mirror image). Using this ability requires a line of effect to the teleportation target square.

+++ Mob Ruler (Sp)
You can move a crowd to tranquility or whip it into a frenzy. By expending one use of mythic power, you can affect a large group of non-mythic creatures—anyone within 20 feet per tier who can see or hear you—with either rage or calm emotions (caster level equal to your character level). If you expend two uses of mythic power, you can escalate an already riotous crowd into confusion (as the spell) or direct their ire toward a target of your choosing (as mass suggestion).

+++ Mythic Bargainer (Ex) (Utility)
When you make a bargain with any creature, you can solemnize the contract as a swift action by expending a use of mythic power. When you do, the creature is compelled to uphold its end of the bargain as if by a mark of justice. The save DC is equal to your character level + your tier. The mark is removed if you break your end of the deal. This ability has no effect if the target was magically manipulated into consenting. If the target is mythic, it can negate the mark with a successful Will save against DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your tier.

+++ Obscurity (Ex or Su)
You may shake off the heroism that troubles you. You gain a +20 bonus on Disguise checks to assume another identity. This identity must be a nonheroic, non-famous commoner or expert. This identity is so ordinary it goes unquestioned by any who have not encountered you before and only those who witness behavior unusual for a commoner or expert attempt Perception checks to overcome your Disguise. You may expend a use of mythic power as part of your Disguise check to gain immunity to divinations as though you had cast mind blank (though you gain no bonus on saving throws against mind-affecting effects) for 24 hours or until you remove the Disguise.

+++ One Step Ahead (Su)
Whenever you are targeted with a spell or effect (including being included in the area of a harmful area effect) that can be directly and specifically countered or defended by an ability you possess and have ready for use, such as a prepared spell (or spell slot for a spontaneous caster), you can expend one use of your mythic power to use that ability as an immediate action upon yourself before resolving the original effect. The effect must target you, not other creatures or an area.
This ability can only be used during combat, but it may be used while you are unaware of your attacker or are flat-footed. If you are affected by a condition that prevents you from taking actions, such as being dazed, stunned, or unconscious, you can still use this ability by expending an additional use of your mythic power. You can also use this ability to use a potion, scroll, or other magical item with a suitable effect by expending an additional use of your mythic power.
Examples of guile sphere effects that could be created using this ability include: beginning a Body Control sphere meditation with the Maintain Stamina (control) to resist a paralysis effect, beginning a Communication Sphere rapport using Friend of a Friend to protect against a mind-affecting effect, consuming a Vitiating Unguent tonic from the Herbalism sphere to protect against fire damage, and beginning a Mental Preparations acclimation from the Navigation sphere to protect against a fear effect.
Effects that are generally useful as defensive abilities but not specific to the attack being used, such as mirror image, invisibility, or displacement, and multi-function effects that are only partly related to the attack being used, such as using elemental body I or fire shield to gain resistance to fire, are not suitable for use with this ability.

+++ Perfect Lie (Ex) (Utility)
When telling a lie, you can expend one use of mythic power to make the lie indiscernible from the truth by both Sense Motive and magic. Obvious proof of your falsehood still reveals the lie for what it is, but in absence of proof, those who hear your lie believe it.

+++ Perfect Mimic (Su) 
You can use the Disguise skill as a full-round action. When you attempt to impersonate a specific person, those familiar with the individual receive only half the normal bonus from familiarity to see through your disguise. If you expend one use of mythic power when creating a disguise to impersonate an individual, you can read that creature's mind as if using detect thoughts with a range of 1 mile. This allows you to better mimic the individual, granting you a further +10 bonus on opposed Disguise skill checks. The target of your impersonation receives a Will saving throw (DC 10 + your tier + your operative modifier) to negate the detect thoughts aspect of this ability.

+++ Predictive Analysis (Ex)
You may apply your Intelligence modifier instead of your Dexterity modifier when making initiative checks. You may also spend one use of mythic power as a full-round action contemplating a creature, object, location, or idea associated with one type of Knowledge skill. This grants you the effect of moment of prescience, with a caster level equal to the number of ranks you have in that Knowledge skill; however, the moment of prescience can be triggered only as part of a die roll relating to that Knowledge skill, such as an attack roll against a dragon if the related skill was Knowledge (arcana).

+++ Prepared For You (Ex)
Once per encounter, as an immediate action, you may outwit a creature and spend one use of mythic power to take a full round of actions. You may only do this after an opponent has declared an action (such as making an attack or casting a spell).

+++ Reverse Scrying (Su)
When you notice a scrying sensor created by a scrying magical effect, you can expend one use of mythic power as a standard action to use that sensor to observe its creator. If the initial scrying effect allows the target a saving throw, the sensor’s creator can attempt a saving throw with a DC equal to 10 plus double your tier to realize you are attempting to observe it and block this attempt. If you act strangely once you notice the sensor, its creator might realize you’re aware of it; at the GM’s discretion, you may need to attempt a Bluff check against the creator’s Sense Motive.
If your reverse scrying goes unnoticed, you can expend an additional use of mythic power to control what the caster perceives, as if you had cast false vision with a duration of concentration and a caster level equal to double your tier.

+++ Sardonic Wit (Su) 
You know exactly when to lighten the mood and help shake off the doldrums. As a move action, you can expend one use of mythic power to remove a single mind-affecting effect from one creature within 30 feet. This ability doesn't work on effects with an instantaneous or permanent duration.

+++ Speak My Name (Su)
When you take this path ability you must choose a “true name” that represents your spiritual self and serves as a binding representation of your mythic power. You may teach this name to up to one creature per tier. Whenever someone successfully says your true name, you can appear at that creature’s location by expending two uses of mythic power as if taken there by word of recall. You know who is saying your true name, and you can choose not to be transported if you wish.

+++ That Trick Doesn’t Work on Me Anymore (Ex)
When you learn a creature’s combat feats using the analytical eye path ability and that creature attacks you, you can select a number of its combat feats equal to one-half your mythic tier as an immediate action, spending one use of mythic power per feat you select. Your attacker gains no benefit from using those feats against you for the next 24 hours, though it may use them against other creatures and still takes any penalties associated with using those feats. If negating the benefits of these feats results in your opponent provoking an attack of opportunity from you, such as negating the Improved Trip feat, you gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier to your attack roll on your attack of opportunity.
You must have the analytical eye path ability to select this path ability.

+++ Unflappable Approach (Ex)
You may adopt one additional approach at a time and may enter an approach as part of action to enter another approach that requires the same action or longer to enter. When you die or fall unconscious, you may spend one use of mythic power to maintain any approaches you are in (though you are still limited by your actions).

+++ Use Your Own Words Against You (Su)
When a creature uses a language-dependent effect against you, you can expend one use of mythic power to store that effect for a number of days equal to your mythic tier. At any point you can trigger that ability with the same effect as when it was originally used. If the creature that originally created the effect is affected by it, you add one-half your mythic tier to the save DC and the effective caster level of the effect for that creature only.

+++ Vanishing Move (Su) 
When you wish to not be seen, you aren't. As a swift action, you can make yourself invisible until the end of your turn. This effect ends if you do anything other than move. If you expend one use of mythic power when using this ability, it instead acts as greater invisibility using double your tier as your caster level.

+++ Words of Hope (Su) (Utility)
As a standard action, you can expend one use of mythic power to inspire allies within a 30-foot radius, granting each of them the ability to roll twice and take the higher result on one attack roll, saving throw, skill check, or ability check. An ally can use this ability once per round for a number of rounds equal to half your tier, and must choose whether to roll twice before rolling the die. This is a language-dependent emotion effect.

++ 6th-Tier Path Abilities

+++ Bottled Talent (Su)
As a standard action, you can expend one use of mythic power and attempt a melee touch attack against a creature with class levels. If you succeed, choose one of that creature’s class features with limited uses, such as rage, smite evil, or a single spell with a casting time of 1 standard action. You replicate that ability and place it into an item you hold for 10 minutes per tier. Any creature holding the item can expend 1 point of mythic power as a standard action to activate the replicated feature, using the level of the creature touched as their level for any effects based on level. You cannot replicate a specific feature from a creature more than once every 24 hours in this way. You must be at least 6th tier to select this path ability.

+++ Castigate (Su) 
While your words can soothe and aid your friends, they are equally adept at assaulting your foes. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to unleash a scathing verbal assault that demoralizes all opponents within 30 feet for 1 minute, as if you had successfully used the Intimidate skill. These opponents must be able to clearly see and hear you, but this ability is not language dependent.

+++ Class Mimic (Ex)
The abilities of your allies are available to you with a touch. As a standard action, you can expend one use of mythic power and touch a willing creature to copy one of that creature’s class features. You gain the use of this class feature for 10 minutes per tier, using the level of the creature touched as your level for any effects based on level. You cannot copy an ability that has a limited number of uses per day (such as rage, smite evil, medical training, or spellcasting) or an ability that involves a companion (such as eidolon, hunter’s bond, or nature bond). You can have only one use of this ability in effect at one time. If you use this ability again, any previous use immediately ends. You cannot copy the same ability more than once per day.

+++ Defy Destiny (Sp)
You can call upon powerful forces to rewrite the immediate past and defy destiny itself. As an immediate action, you can expend three uses of mythic power to change an action you took during your previous turn. If you take the same action again, you roll any dice anew and keep the new result instead of the original result (even if it is worse). Reality changes to suit the new result.

+++ Fast Friends (Su) (Utility)
You have such a way with words that you can befriend entire groups of people with a single utterance. As a standard action, you can expend one use of mythic power to improve the attitudes of all nonmythic creatures within 30 feet by one step. You can use this ability multiple times to improve these creatures' attitudes by multiple steps. Mythic creatures receive a Will save (DC = 10 + your tier + your operative modifier) to negate this effect. The improvement to attitude lasts a number of hours equal to your tier. This ability is generally ineffective in combat (except perhaps to sway the attitude of a crowd of bystanders or an unaffiliated neutral party) or against creatures that intend to harm you and your allies in the immediate future.

+++ Free Your Mind (Su) 
You can reach into the mind of your allies and free them from unwanted influence. You can spend 1 point of mythic power as a full-round action to remove a mind-affecting effect currently affecting an ally within 30 feet. The effect immediately affects you instead, and you receive a saving throw to resist the effect as if you were the original target. If you succeed, the effect has no effect on you; otherwise, you are subject to it. 

+++ Inscrutable (Sp)
You gain the benefits of permanent mind blank, with a caster level equal to your character level plus your tier. You can suppress this effect as a standard action; if you do so (or if the mind blank is dispelled), you can resume it as a standard action. Non-mythic creatures automatically fail Diplomacy checks or Knowledge checks to learn information about you.

+++ Regression to the Mean (Su)
Whenever you or an ally makes a die roll, you can expend one use of mythic power after the die roll to treat the result of that roll as if it were the mathematical average for that roll, whether it involves a single die or multiple dice, treating each d4 result as 2.5, each d6 as as 3.5, each d8 as 4.5, each d10 as 5.5, each d12 as 6.5, and each d20 as 10.5, rounding down if the die roll involves an odd number of dice (including a single die). This does not require an action. You can expend one use of mythic power (two uses if the target is a mythic creature) as an immediate action to use this ability to affect an opponent’s die roll. You cannot affect an opponent whose mythic rank or tier exceeds yours with this ability.

+++ Steal Power (Su)
By attempting a melee touch attack as a standard action, you can try to steal mythic power from another creature. The target must have at least one use of mythic power available. If the attack hits, attempt an opposed d20 roll against the target, adding your tier. If your total exceeds that of the target, the target loses one use of mythic power and you gain one use. You can use this ability on a given creature only once per day.

+++ Surge of Inspiration (Su)
Your very presence pushes those around you to be their very best. As an immediate action, when an ally within line of sight misses with an attack or fails a saving throw, you can expend one use of mythic power or your confidence ability to grant the ally the benefits of your surge ability on that attack roll or saving throw. The ally uses your surge die, and can apply the bonus after the result is revealed, possibly turning a failure into a success.

+++ Unending Performance (Su)
You can imbue an ally with power that lingers for a full day. Whenever you use a spell, sphere ability, bardic performance, or another class feature to grant a morale or competence bonus, you can designate any one creature affected by this bonus. The designated creature keeps this bonus for up to 24 hours. You can have only one creature designated in this way at a time. If you designate a new creature, the bonus immediately ends for the previous target. The creature you designate must be one of the targets when you cast the spell, start the performance, or use the class feature.

+++ Unswerving Loyalty (Su)
You are a bastion of strength and resolve, and you possess the ability to protect your mind from even the most powerful charms and compulsions. You gain immunity to non-mythic mind-affecting effects, though you can choose to be affected by them if you wish. When subject to a mind-affecting effect from a mythic source, you can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to gain immunity to that effect.

+++ Words of Valor (Su) 
With a mere speech, you empower your allies to take on any foe. As a standard action, you can expend two uses of mythic power to inspire all of your allies within a 30-foot radius, granting them the effects of the spell heroism and making them immune to fear for 1 round per tier. Each mythic creature that is affected by this ability can use its surge ability once during this duration without having to expend one use of mythic power.
[[/tab]]
