title:Traits
parent:start
[[toc]]

+ Combat

++ Practiced Aim (Combat)

Benefit: You gain a +1 trait bonus on attack rolls with your destructive blast.

++ Schooled Avoidance (Combat)

Benefit: You gain a +2 trait bonus on all saves versus destructive blasts.

+ Faith

++ Conscious Cultist (Faith)

Prerequisite: You must openly belong to a community of psychic influence (i.e. an agency or guild).

Gain a +1 trait bonus to CL when using talents and abilities from the Divination, Mind and Telekinesis spheres. This increase in caster level may not raise your caster level over your hit dice. In addition, as a member of good standing with the psychic community, you may attend, if not participate in occult rituals or incantations as a secondary caster or performer.

++ Grove Neophyte (Faith)

Prerequisite: You must openly worship a spirit of nature, be it an element, ideal or actual spirit.

You gain a +1 trait bonus to your caster level when using talents and abilities from the Nature, Weather, or Alteraiton spheres. This increase in caster level may not raise your caster level over your hit dice. In addition, you may attend, if not participate in, rituals and incantations performed inside hallowed druid stone circles.

+ Magic

++ Daysense (Magic)

Benefit: You can sense the positions of the celestial bodies, even when you are underground or they are out of sight. This allows you to always know the precise time and the direction of true north. In addition, you gain a +1 trait bonus on Knowledge (Geography) and Survival checks, and one of these skills (of your choice) becomes a class skill.

++ Destructive Reservoir (Magic)

Benefit: Once per day you may cause yourself to become fatigued as a free action. You immediately gain 2 temporary spell points. These points persist until the start of your next turn and can only be spend on a destructive blast. If you are already fatigued, you instead become exhausted. If you are exhausted or immune to fatigue or exhaustion you may not use this trait.

++ Destructive Talent (Magic)

Benefit: Your destructive blasts gain a +1 trait bonus to damage. This bonus increases by 1 for every 10 character levels. This bonus damage is of the same type as the destructive blast. If the blast deals more than one damage type, as with the admixture talent, you may choose which type this bonus applies to.

++ Dual Limit (Magic)

Benefit: If you possess the Limited Telekinesis drawback, you may select an additional material that you can manipulate with telekinesis.

Special: If you later buy off the Limited Telekinesis drawback, you may immediately replace this trait with the Kinetic Drain or Potential Energy trait.

++ Favored Damage (Magic)

Benefit: Choose one blast type group. You gain a +2 trait bonus to your caster level for destructive blasts to which you apply (blast type) talents from that blast type group. This bonus cannot cause you to have a caster level greater than your HD.

++ Friendly Fortune Teller (Magic)
Two times per day, while touching a creature or an object, you may as a free action decrease the spell point cost of a (divine) talent or ability by 1. You only divine information about the touched creature or object when using this trait.

++ Kinetic Drain (Magic)

Benefit: You know how to harness the power of motion and use it for spellcasting. Once per day, you may spend a move action to gain a temporary spell point. This point persists until the start of your next turn, and must be spent on talents and effects related to the Telekinesis Sphere.

++ Omen Reader (Magic)

You may cast read magic as a spell-like ability which you may use at-will as a standard action. For the purpose of this spell-like ability, your effective caster level is equal to 1/2 your HD (minimum 1).

++ Photosynthetic Magic (Magic)

Benefit: The light of the sun is powerful, and you can harness it for your own magic. After spending at least one hour in true sunlight over the course of a day, you gain an additional spell point that can only be spent on talents and effects related to the Light sphere. Time spent in the sun does not need to be consecutive. You cannot gain more than one spell point a day this way.

++ Potential Energy (Magic)

Benefit: You learn to conserve but ready your energy, poising it on the edge but holding it back until you need it most. You gain a second spell point pool that can hold two spell points. This spell pool never refreshes, but you may fill it by shifting points from your primary spell point pool as a full round action. These spell points may only be spent on talents and effects related to the Telekinesis Sphere.

++ Unorthodox Casting (Magic)

Perhaps you are a druid trained in nature magic by a fey such as a nymph or satyr; maybe you grew up in a great library where you studied the magic of nature and geography; or perhaps you learned magic from an academic who combined study and meditation in equal measures. Either way, you embrace unorthodox techniques that change your approach to magic.

Choose any one mental ability score, you use that score as your casting ability score for any sphere casting classes you have, thus affecting the use of spheres, talents, spell points, etc. This does not change or otherwise affect any class specific features they may have based on another ability score, unless that class feature specifically calls out a casting ability score anywhere in the class feature.

++ Unrealized Telekinetic (Magic)

Benefit: You may use the mage hand cantrip as an at will spell-like ability with a caster level equal to half your level. In addition, you can qualify for Protokinesis feats without possessing the Telekinesis Sphere. For the purposes of these feats you are treated as having a caster level equal to half your character level, and may choose one mental ability as your casting ability score.

Special: If you later gain access to the Telekinesis Sphere, you may immediately replace this trait with the Kinetic Drain or Potential Energy trait.

+ Race

++ Minor Bioluminescence (Race)

Benefit: Your skin (or a patterned portion of it) shines with a strange luminescence that many find to be mesmerizing. You shed light as a candle, increasing the light level by one step 5 ft. around you, and may turn this light on or off as a free action. So long as the light is on, you gain a +1 bonus on Bluff checks. In addition, Bluff is a class skill for you.

Special: A member of any race may select this trait, representing distant ancestry to celestial or other light based creatures, or an atypical mutation of some kind.

+ Religion

++ Aura (Religion)

Benefit: You shed light as a torch, illuminating a 10 ft. radius with normal light and increasing light by one step (to a maximum of normal) 10 ft. beyond that. This light is a supernatural ability, and you may turn this light on or off as a standard action. In addition, you gain a +1 trait bonus on Knowledge (Religion) checks, and Knowledge (Religion) is a class skill for you.

++ Sun Worship (Religion)

Benefit: By dedicating yourself to the sun, you have become inured to its effects and attuned to its nature. You are immune to the dazzled condition. In addition, you may qualify for the Photosynthesis and Sense Light feats as if you possessed the Light Sphere.

++ Untethered (Religion)

Benefit: You follow a spiritual path of freedom, distancing yourself from the world in order to achieve enlightenment. You may choose to count yourself as either one size smaller or one size larger when you would be affected by telekinesis due to your ability to detach yourself from worldly bonds.

+ Social

++ Meditative (Social)

You may two times per day when casting divination (sense) abilities increase the casting time to 10 minutes to reduce the spell point cost by 1. You may not apply any metamagic feats to any sense modified by this trait.
