title:Using Spheres Of Power
+ Using the Spheres

Spheres of Power is a completely new magic system that may be used alongside or may completely replace the core Pathfinder spell system.

Like spells, the spheres grant a magic user the ability to accomplish great things that would otherwise be impossible. Bending
fire, summoning angels, layering enchantments on an unsuspecting creature’s mind: all of this and more is possible for a master of the spheres.

Like spells, spheres require levels in a magic-using class. Using a sphere ability provokes an attack of opportunity (unless cast defensively), requires a concentration check in difficult situations, ceases to function in an anti-magic field, and is subject to spell resistance. Unlike spells, however, sphere abilities do not require gestures or magic words, nor are they divided between Arcane and Divine sources (although another part of this wiki details Casting Traditions—a way for players and GMs to re-introduce these particulars and distinctions). Likewise, just as a fighter may take levels in other martial classes without sacrificing his combat ability, a caster may take multiple casting classes without necessarily dividing his power.

Where the core Pathfinder magic system grants access to spells and spell levels, magic users using the Spheres of Power system (referred to as ‘casters’ on this site) use spheres and talents.

There are 20 spheres contained in this system, including Alteration, Creation, Conjuration, Dark, Death, Destruction, Divination, Enhancement, Fate, Illusion, Light, Life, Mind, Nature, Protection, Telekinesis, Time, War, Warp, and Weather.

Spheres provide a caster with a broad magical focus; for example, powers that deal with moving objects through space are contained in the Telekinesis sphere, while powers that deal with manipulating winds and rain are contained in the Weather sphere. Each sphere provides the caster with an at-will ability, which may be further refined through gaining talents associated with that sphere. Beyond the spheres themselves (located elsewhere on this Wiki), there are several terms that must be explained for use with this system: **Magic Talents, Caster Level, Casting Ability Modifier, Casting Time, Distances, Spell Points, Saving Throw Difficulty Class, and Magic Skill Bonus** and **Magic Skill Defense**.
