title:Wild Magic
**THIS PAGE IS BEING TESTED**

[[html]]
<style>
    * {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    }
    #container {
    width: 90%;
    margin: 90px auto;
    padding: 10px;
    border: 1px solid #606060;
    }
    .alignleft {
    float: left;
    }
    .alignright {
    float: right;
    }
</style>
<div id="container">
    <p class="alignjustify" id="randomResult">&nbsp;</p>
    <button class="alignjustify" id="button">Trigger Universal Wild Magic</button>
    <div style="clear: both;"></div>
</div>
<script>
    function randString(){
        return stringArray[~~(rand()*stringArray.length)];
    }
    function randText(){
        var tx = randString();
        var txt = document.createTextNode(tx);
        var sp = document.createElement('span');
        sp.appendChild(txt);
        randomResult.innerHTML = '';
        randomResult.appendChild(sp) = tx;
    }
    rand = Math.random;
    stringArray = ['1: The caster takes a number of points of ability damage to his casting stat equal to the its caster level/4 (minimum 1) even if he would normally be immune to ability damage.', '2: All creatures within close range of the caster must succeed on a Reflex save or become entangled by plants, shifting rocks, or ice as appropriate to the environment for 1d6 rounds.', '3: For 1 hour per level, the caster gains the Draining Casting drawback, but not its benefits.', '4: The spell point cost of the effect decreases by 1. If the effect did not require any spell points, the caster instead gains 1 temporary spell point that expires at the end of his next turn.', '5: An illusory minstrel follows the caster for 10 minutes per caster level, singing loudly of the deeds of the caster.', '6: A small elemental is called adjacent to the caster. This elemental is hostile to all creatures and attacks the nearest to the best of its ability. The size of this elemental increases with caster level: CL 5 - medium, CL 10 - large, CL 15 - huge, CL 20 - elder. Roll 1d4 to determine the elemental type, 1 - air, 2 - earth, 3 - fire, 4 - water.', '7: All sphere effects cast within long range of the caster for 1d6 rounds are enhanced as if by the Empower Spell metamagic feat with no increased casting time if they are valid effects to which it may be applied.', '8: The caster takes untyped nonlethal damage equal to caster level. This damage does not force concentration checks to cast or maintain sphere effects or spells.', '9: The caster gains the plant creature type for 1 hour. Do not recalculate base attack bonus, saves, or skill points.', '10: (Combat) The caster is stunned for 1 round.', '11: The effect fails, but the action is not lost. Spell points or spell slots spent are lost.', '12: For 1 minute per caster level, the arms and legs of the caster are replaced by tentacles. These tentacles may not supply somatic components, wield weapons and shields, nor use items. The base speed of the caster becomes 10 ft. and he gains a climb speed of 20 feet. Each tentacle grants a tentacle natural attack (secondary, 1d4 medium, 1d3 Small) with the reach property.', '13: The casting time decreases by 1 step.', '14: The caster suffers 50% spell failure chance for 1d6 rounds.', '15: Nearby dead invertebrates of Tiny size and smaller animate as undead and follow the caster for 10 minutes per caster level. Their noise imposes a penalty on Stealth checks equal to half caster level (minimum 1).', '16: All sphere effects cast within medium range of the caster for 1d6 rounds are enhanced as if by the Quicken Spell metamagic feat. The caster may always choose to use the normal casting time instead.', '17: A shadow twin of the caster appears adjacent to the caster. This twin possesses all of the abilities and equipment of the caster, though only 1 hit point. This twin aids the caster for 1 minute per caster level or until slain. The twin and all its equipment disappear when the twin is slain or the effect expires. Any non-instantaneous effect originating from the twin end when it disappears.', '18: All allied creatures within long range of the caster shrink as the Size Change talent of the Alteration sphere for 10 minutes per caster level.', '19: The perception of time slows for the caster, allowing him to concentrate on a single effect as a free action each round for 1 minute.', '20: A stationary pillar of brilliant light appears in the space of the target and follows the target, moving toward him at a rate of 30 ft. + 5 ft. per 2 caster levels, passing through solid objects in the shortest possible route. Any creature occupying a space with the pillar of light at the beginning of its turn is blinded until it ends its turn outside the space of the pillar. This effect lasts for 1 round per caster level. The pillar extends 5 ft. per caster level into the air.', '21: An area out to close range of the caster is covered in small, hard, round objects. Any creature attempting to leave a square in this area must succeed on a Reflex save or fall prone. These objects persist for 1 round per caster level.', '22: (Combat) The caster is nauseated for 1 round.', '23: A creature within long range that the caster chooses gains the Somatic Casting drawback, but not its benefits, until the caster completes a rest to regain spell points.', '24: Feathers fall from the sky in an area out to long range from the caster for 1 round per caster level, granting concealment to all creatures in that area.', '25: The casting time decreases by 2 steps.', '26: The caster gains the Somatic Casting drawback, but not its benefits, until he completes a rest to regain spell points.', '27: Roll again on the Wild Cantrips table.', '28: All creatures within close range of the caster are struck by lightning, dealing 1d6 electricity damage per 4 caster levels (minimum 1d6). A Reflex save negates this damage.', '29: All sphere effects cast within medium range of the target or target area for 1d6 rounds are enhanced as if by the Quicken Spell metamagic feat. The caster may always choose to use the normal casting time instead.', '30: All unattended flammable objects within close range of the target or center of the target area are set on fire.', '31: All allied creatures within close range of the caster gain spell immunity to all spheres the caster does not possess for 1d6 rounds.', '32: The casting time increases by 2 steps.', '33: (Combat) All hostile creatures within close range of the caster gain spell immunity to all spheres the caster does not possess for 1d6 rounds.', '34: The caster gains spell immunity to all spheres he possesses for 1d6 minutes.', '35: The caster is struck by lightning once per round, dealing 1 electricity damage per caster level for a number of rounds equal to caster level.', '36: (Combat) For 1d6 rounds, the caster leaves behind a glowing trail of flame. Any creature that enters a square that has been occupied by the caster since the beginning of the previous turn of the caster takes fire damage equal to caster level. A creature may only take this damage once per turn.', '37: A creature within long range that the caster chooses gains the Verbal Casting drawback, but not its benefits, until the caster completes a rest to regain spell points.', '38: The caster gains the undead creature type for 1 hour. Do not recalculate base attack bonus, saves, or skill points.', '39: The caster grows extremely hungry and must succeed on a Fortitude save each hour or be compelled to eat the amount of food normally needed for a full day during that hour. Failure to do so inflicts 1 point of Constitution damage on the caster. The save DC decreases by 1 each hour. A successful save ends this effect.', '40: The caster takes 1d4 Constitution damage even if he would normally be immune to ability damage.', '41: The caster turns invisible per the Invisibility talent of the Illusion sphere for 1 hour or until he makes a hostile action, whichever comes first.', '42: For 1 hour, a creature within close range of the caster that the caster chooses at the time this result is triggered gains the Empowered Abilities boon.', '43: For 1 hour per level, a creature within long range that the caster chooses gains the Draining Casting drawback, but not its benefits.', '44: All creatures within close range of the caster at the time this result is triggered become shaken for 1 round whenever they see a mouse. This effect persists for 1 day per caster level.', '45: The base attack bonus of the caster is reduced to 0 for 1 round per caster level.', '46: The caster gains spell immunity to all spheres he does not possess for 1d6 minutes.', '47: For 1 hour per caster level, the caster suffers a 25% increase to wild magic chance of all sphere effects.', '48: For 1 minute per caster level, non-magical objects the caster touches temporarily age. Food becomes rotten, metal tarnished, cloth worn and threadbare. All objects return to their previous state when this effect ends. The change has no effect on hardness, hit points, or other attributes.', '49: All sphere effects cast within close range of the caster for 1 round per caster level take a penalty on caster level equal to half the caster level of the triggering effect. Effects with a resulting caster level of less than 1 fail, wasting any actions and spell points.', '50: Effect receives a +2 bonus to caster level.', '51: (Combat) For 1d6 rounds, the caster leaves behind a glowing trail of positive energy. Any creature that enters a square that has been occupied by the caster since the beginning of the previous turn of the caster is healed a number of hit points equal to caster level. This is a positive energy effect. Creatures harmed by positive energy are instead damaged. A creature may only be affected by this ability once per turn.', '52: All hostile creatures within long range of the caster shrink as the Size Change talent of the Alteration sphere for 10 minutes per caster level.', '53: The spell point cost of the effect increases by 1d4. If the caster does not have enough spell points, he is instead dazed until the end of his next turn.', '54: The casting time increases by 1 step.', '55: All cheese within long range of the caster explodes harmlessly, destroying the cheese.', '56: All creatures within close range must succeed on a Will save or have their base attack bonus reduced to 0 for 1 round per caster level.', '57: A shower of sparks light up the sky in a 1 mile radius, increasing the light level by 1 step for 1d20 rounds.', '58: A creature within long range that the caster chooses gains the Addictive Casting drawback, but not its benefits, for 1 day.', '59: The caster uses his base attack bonus in place of his caster level and vice versa for 1 minute per caster level.', '60: The target shrinks as per the Size Change talent of the Alteration sphere for 1 round per caster level. This stacks with other polymorph effects.', '61: The effect fails and the action is lost. Spell points or spell slots are not lost.', '62: The caster is dazed for 1 round as he receives a vision of the most recent violent death of a humanoid within 1 mile per caster level.', '63: All unattended flammable objects within close range of the caster are set on fire.', '64: Each round for 1d6 rounds, the caster returns to the location where he began his previous turn. This effect functions even across planar boundaries.', '65: The effect fails and the action is lost. Spell points or spell slots are lost.', '66: (Combat) All creatures within medium range of the caster must succeed on a Reflex save or fall prone. Flying creatures instead fall 50 feet.', '67: (Combat) All creatures are surrounded by a barrier as per the Barrier (ward) ability of the Protection sphere. This barrier lasts for 1 minute per caster level or until destroyed and fully replenishes its hit points each round at the start of the turn of the caster.', '68: An outsider of an alignment opposed to the alignment of the caster (for true neutral, LG, CG, LE, or CE is randomly selected) that the GM chooses is called per the Summoning advanced talent of the Conjuration sphere, appearing adjacent to the caster. This creature has HD equal to the maximum possible for that talent and is not bound or controlled in any way.', '69: The caster gains the Extended Casting drawback, but not its benefits, for 1 day.', '70: Roll twice and take both results. Ignore any results that require rerolls. If both rolls thus ignored, there is no effect.', '71: Any affected creature forgets everything that has happened in the last 24 hours. This result may be removed per the Amnesia talent of the Mind sphere.', '72: Effect receives a -4 penalty to caster level (minimum 1).', '73: For 1 minute, all magic items within long range of the caster shed light as a torch.', '74: All sphere effects cast by the caster for 1d6 rounds are enhanced as if by the Extend Spell metamagic feat with no increased casting time if they are valid effects to which it may be applied.', '75: For 1 hour per caster level, a creature within medium range that the caster chooses suffers an increase to wild magic chance of all sphere effects of 25%.', '76: All sphere effects cast within long range of the caster for 1d6 rounds are enhanced as if by the Extend Spell metamagic feat with no increased casting time if they are valid effects to which it may be applied.', '77: The caster gains the Verbal Casting drawback, but not its benefits, until he completes a rest to regain spell points.', '78: One unattended object of Diminutive size or smaller per caster level within close range of the caster become animated as per the Animate Object talent for 1 minute. This object is hostile toward the caster and will harm the caster to the best of their ability. The size affected increases by one category per 5 caster levels.', '79: For 1 minute per caster level, the caster falls prone whenever attempting to move more than half his speed. If flying, he instead falls 50 feet.', '80: Any food carried by the caster at the time of casting becomes infested with maggots.', '81: For 1 minute per caster level, all creatures within long range sing loudly about their actions, as if in a musical. This imparts a -4 penalty to Stealth skill checks but otherwise has no impact on actions or any other mechanical effect.', '82: (Combat) All creatures treat all squares within close range of the caster as difficult terrain for 1d6 rounds.', '83: All creatures within close range of the caster gain spell immunity to all spheres the caster possesses for 1d6 rounds.', '84: (Combat) The caster is dazed for 1 round.', '85: (Combat) For 1 round per caster level, all creatures within close range of the caster lose the benefit of all circumstance, competence, dodge, insight, luck, resistance, and sacred bonuses to d20 rolls and may ignore all penalties to d20 rolls.', '86: All creatures within close range of the caster gain spell immunity to all spheres the caster does not possess for 1d6 rounds.', '87: The caster loses knowledge of any of the talents used in the effect (but not the base sphere) for the length of the effect (minimum 1 round).', '88: The caster is exhausted.', '89: For 1 hour, the caster gains the Empowered Abilities boon.', '90: All creatures within close range of the caster must succeed on a Will save or begin falling upward at a rate of 5 ft. per round. This effect prevents the creature from falling but otherwise has no impact on the movement of the creature for that round, provided it has a move speed suitable to its environment (flight if in the air, swim if below water, burrow if underground). This effect lasts for 1 round per caster level.', '91: The caster gains knowledge of one talent of his choice from this sphere for 1 round.', '92: The spell point cost of the effect increases by 1. If the caster does not have enough spell points, he is instead staggered until the end of his next turn.', '93: All sphere effects cast by the caster for 1d6 rounds are enhanced as if by the Empower Spell metamagic feat with no increased casting time if they are valid effects to which it may be applied.', '94: The caster must succeed on a Fortitude save or gain 1 negative level +1 per 5 caster levels as the Drain (ghost strike) talent of the Death sphere.', '95: The caster is fatigued.', '96: For 1 day, the caster gains the Addictive Casting drawback, but not its benefits.', '97: The caster loses access to this sphere for 1d6 rounds.', '98: The caster permanently changes color to a random hue: 1: blue, 2: green, 3: red, 4: yellow, 5: pink, 6: caster pick', '99: A creature within long range that the caster chooses gains the Extended Casting drawback, but not its benefits, for 1 day.', '100: (Combat) For 1d6 rounds, the caster leaves behind a shadowy trail of negative energy. Any creature that enters a square that has been occupied by the caster since the beginning of the previous turn of the caster takes negative energy damage equal to caster level. This is a negative energy effect. Creatures healed by negative energy are instead healed. A creature may only be affected by this ability once per turn.'];
    randomResult = document.getElementById('randomResult');
    document.getElementById("button").addEventListener('click',randText,false);
</script>
[[/html]]
