title:Imperator (Tactician Archetype)
parent:arcforge
Harnessing immense supernatural power to bend the wills and coordinate the minds of those around them, imperators create a collective of disciples over which they hold total command.

++ Proficiencies
Imperators are proficient with simple weapons, as well as light armor and bucklers. In addition, if this is their first level in any class, they may select a martial tradition of their choice.

This modifies weapon and armor proficiencies.

++ Casting
The imperator may combine spheres and talents to create magical effects. The imperator is considered a High-Caster. (Note: All casters gain 2 bonus talents and may select a casting tradition the first time they gain the casting class feature.)

This replaces lesser strategies, powers and power points

++ Spell Pool
A imperator gains a small reservoir of energy they can call on to create truly wondrous effects, called a spell pool. This pool contains a number of spell points equal to their class level + their casting ability modifier (minimum: 1). This pool replenishes once per day after roughly 8 hours of rest.

++ ##00c000|Blended Training##
A imperator gains a combat or magic talent at every even level. This does not stack with caster levels gained from other sources.

A imperator uses his casting ability modifier as his practitioner modifier.

++ Flexible Tactics
The DCs and effects of all of the imperator’s class abilities and the Unwilling Participant feat are based on the imperator’s casting ability modifier rather than Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma.

++ Might of Empire (Su)
At 1st level, the imperator gains the ability to use a single sphere or talent of a member of his collective as if he knew it. The imperator must meet the prerequisites for this sphere or talent and only retains the benefit so long as one of his collective members possesses the talent. The imperator may change what talent he gains as a standard action or as part of an action to add a creature to his collective (including from the Unwilling Participant feat). The imperator is aware of what talents members of his collective possess. At 3rd level and every odd level thereafter, the imperator can gain the benefit of an additional sphere or talent with this ability, to a maximum of 10 at 19th level.

++ Ruler of Many (Su)
At 2nd level, an imperator is treated as having any [mass] talents of any sphere for which he possesses the base sphere. This includes base spheres gained from the might of empire class feature. Effects that target only members of the imperator’s collective ignore spell resistance. This ability replaces spirit of many.

++ Imperator’s Domain (Su)
At 5th level, the imperator receives Counterspell as a bonus feat and may target any effect which is affecting a member of their collective or is being concentrated on by a member of their collective regardless of range. At 11th level, the imperator gains Improved Counterspell as a bonus feat and may target any combination of effects which they can affect with Counterspell, to a maximum of one effect per 5 caster levels. At 17th level, the imperator gains Greater Counterspell as a bonus feat and treats any magic skill check roll that they make against an effect targeting or created by a member of their collective as if they had rolled a natural 20 on the die.

This replaces improved share.

++ Echo Energies (Su)
At 8th level, the imperator gains the ability to copy non-permanent magic sphere effects within his collective. If a member of the collective is affected by a magic sphere effect with a duration greater than 1 round, the imperator can echo it onto another member of his collective. To do so the imperator must first identify the sphere and any talents affecting it.

Echoing a magic sphere effect is a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity and costs the imperator a number of spell points equal to the original effect’s spell point cost. The new target must be legal for the effect in question (for instance, if you attempt to echo Mind sphere charm onto a zombie, the echo will fail). If the effect allows a saving throw, the new target is entitled to a saving throw when the effect is echoed (same DC as the original effect).

Only the sphere effect itself is echoed: metamagic feats and special effects from class features do not echo. The echo has all the same decisions made as the original. For example, Energy Resistance aegis echoes would guard against the same energy type. The echo takes effect at the same caster level as the originator. When the original effect ends or its target leaves the collective, all echoes of the effect also end. An echo can be dispelled as normal without terminating the original.

An imperator can spend additional spell points to target additional creatures with the echo, being able to target one additional creature for every spell point beyond the first spent.

This replaces echo effect.

++ Glory of Empire (Su)
At 14th level, the imperator can spend a use of strategy as a swift action to grant any of his talents gained from might of empire to an ally within his collective. This effect lasts for a number of rounds equal to the imperator’s casting ability modifier. An ally must possess spellcasting abilities in order to utilize magic talents gained from this ability.

At 20th level, the imperator may affect as many targets as he wishes with this ability as part of the same action, only having to spend one use of strategy.

This ability replaces pooled knowledge and master strategist.
