title:Mistshade
parent:wraith
**Mist Form (Su):** At 1st level, for a number of rounds per day equal to his class level plus his casting ability modifier, the mistshade may dissolve into a a mist. The mistshade and all his gear become insubstantial. His armor (including natural armor) becomes worthless, though his size, Dexterity, deflection bonuses, and armor bonuses from force effects still apply. The mistshade takes half damage from weapon attacks and gains a 25% ability to ignore critical hits and precision damage, which increases by 25% per 5 class levels to a maximum of 100%. He can’t attack or cast spells or sphere abilities with verbal, somatic, material, or focus components while in mist form. If he has a touch spell or sphere ability ready to use, that spell or ability is discharged harmlessly when the mist form is in effect. Entering mist form is a move action and ending it is a free action.

While in mist form, the mistshade can shroud himself in a cloud of mist as a swift action. The cloud has a 5-ft. radius, which may be increased by 5 ft. at 5th level, and again every 5 levels thereafter, to a maximum of 25 ft. at 20th level. The mist obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature within 5 ft. has concealment (attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance and the attacker can’t use sight to locate the target). The ability may be dismissed as a free or immediate action and does not function underwater.

While in mist form the mistshade can’t run, but it can fly at a speed of 20 ft. (perfect) + 5 ft. per 5 class levels and automatically succeeds on all Fly skill checks. He can pass through small holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks, with all he was wearing or holding in his hands, as long as the effect persists. The mistshade is subject to the effects of wind, and he can’t enter water or other liquid. He also can’t manipulate objects or activate items, even those carried along with his mist form. Continuously active items remain active, though in some cases their effects may be moot.

This is a polymorph effect.

This replaces wraith form, but any feat, haunt, or other ability that would affect the duration or activation of wraith form may instead be applied to mist form.
