title:Optional Rules
parent:heroes-of-the-jade-oath
[[toc]]

+ ##000000|New Uses for Hero Points##

With the addition of ch’i and sutras, other game elements can provide a new synergy and make for a welcome addition. Characters that can gain ch’i focus can spend a Hero Point to expend their ch’i focus without spending any ch’i points. Sutra casters can use them to gain one extra sutra casting or to add +1d20 to their sutra casting check.

+ ##000000|Optional Rules for Cinematic Combat##

A well-known staple of kung-fu and wuxia movies is the use of improvised weapons to good effect and the effect of opponents being knocked down and around the battlefield, encouraging very dynamic and cinematic battles. The following optional rules suggest this flavor.

+ ##000000|Improvised Weapon Rules for Everyone##

This optional rule encourages the use of improvised weapons. You can allow for the use of an improvised weapon without penalty for any character or creature with a base attack bonus of at least +1 and the martial weapon proficiency.

+ ##000000|Knockback Rules##

For every 15 points of damage inflicted, the target can be knocked back 5 ft. Any target subtracts 5 ft. for every size category it is larger than the attacker. For example, if the target is Size Large and the attacker Size Small, it can ignore knockback if it takes 44 points of damage or less. A racial stability bonus due to a racial feature or four or more legs reduces knockback by 5 ft.

To knock back a target you must make a successful combat maneuver check (this does not provoke an attack off opportunity). Success means that the target is knocked back and knocked prone. A racial stability bonus applies to your opponent’s CMD. Targets that have a stability bonus cannot be knocked prone, but can be knocked back.

If a target suffers from being knocked back, but can go no further due to an obstacle, then it stops. If the target suffers enough damage to both knock it back and to destroy the obstacle (apply the damage directly to the object), then the target breaks the obstacle and is knocked through it.

+ ##000000|Throw Opponent##

You can throw your opponent across the room once you are grappling them; a successful grapple check allows you to continue grappling the foe, and allows you to throw your opponent as part of the standard action spent to maintain the grapple. If your grapple check is successful, your target is thrown 5 feet. For every 5 by which your check exceeds your opponent’s CMD you can throw the target an additional 5 feet. You inflict damage to your target equal to a club of your size (1d6 for medium) plus strength modifier and they are knocked prone, but are no longer grappled. You can however choose to maintain your grapple by falling prone on your opponent though you throw him into square you currently occupy and deal an additional amount of damage equal to a club appropriate to your size (1d6 for medium). This damage can be either lethal or nonlethal.

You can also attempt to throw your opponent into a secondary target requiring a ranged attack roll. If you do not have the Improved Grapple feat, Improvised Weapon feat, or Grab or a similar ability, you suffer a -4 non-proficiency penalty and provoke an attack of opportunity from both targets of your maneuver (you still provoke attacks of opportunity from all other foes for using a ranged weapon in melee). If the maneuver is successful, both targets suffer damage equal to a club appropriate for your size (1d6 for medium) plus your Strength modifier. If your grapple check exceeds the CMD of the target by 10 or more, your opponent must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + ½ your character level + your Strength modifier) or suffer from Stunned condition for one round. If your grapple check fails by 10 or more, your opponent escapes your grapple and you fall prone in your current square.
