title:Universal Path Abilities
parent:mythic-rules
[[toc]]

The following are new path abilities that can be selected by any mythic hero.

----

++ ##000000|1st-Tier Abilities##

++++ Bound by Honor (Ex)
You may take a single monk’s vow^^UM^^ even if you are not a monk. If you are a monk (or other class with a ki pool), add your mythic tier to your class level to determine how many ki points you gain from your vow.

Rather than using the vow you take as part of this ability to add points to your ki pool (or if you do not have a ki pool), you may instead choose to add an equal number of uses of mythic power to your daily total, treating your mythic tier as your monk level for the purpose of determining how many uses of mythic power you gain.

As long as you remain true to your vow, you gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against mind-affecting effects that would cause you to violate your vow. If you have the challenge, smite evil, quarry, or ranger’s focus class feature or a similar ability that involves swearing to defeat a specific enemy, this bonus on saving throws applies whenever you are using that ability.

At the GM’s option, this bonus can be applied more broadly against mind-affecting effects that would cause you to violate other types of promises, vows, oaths, or sworn duties.

You may select this ability more than once. Each time you select it, you may select an additional monk’s vow and add 1 to the saving throw bonus against effects that would cause you to violate any of your vows. If you have taken multiple vows, whether through taking this ability multiple times or from another source, add your mythic tier to your class level to determine how many ki points you gain from each of your vows. If you choose to gain uses of mythic power rather than ki points from your vows, you gain one additional daily use of mythic power for each vow after the first.

++++ Dramatic Reveal (Su)
You gain a striking personal feature for which you are famous. This could be a strangely shaped birthmark or scar, unusual hair or skin color, oddly or differently colored eyes, a distinctive voice or laugh, an extra digit on your hand, or even a distinctive article of clothing that is your trademark. If you wish to conceal this trademark, it goes unnoticed by those around you unless their mythic rank or tier exceeds yours, and your appearance and actions seem hard to describe, causing Sense Motive checks and Diplomacy checks to gather information about you to take a penalty equal to twice your mythic tier. In addition, once per day as a free action you can suddenly reveal yourself and your trademark while making a Diplomacy or Intimidate check, granting you a bonus on that check equal to your mythic tier.

++++ Ever Ready (Ex)
You can always act in a surprise round. In addition, when a creature uses a readied action that affects you, you gain an insight bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier to your Armor Class and on saving throws related to that action.

++++ Genre Savvy (Ex)
You are skilled at figuring out the tropes and tactics typically used in the dangerous world of adventure in which you live and are rarely caught unprepared. You add your mythic tier on Knowledge checks to learn the abilities of creatures you observe, and you learn a number of creature abilities equal to your mythic tier. If a creature you identify with a Knowledge check has damage reduction or energy resistance, you can spend one use of your mythic power as a free action to ignore one type of damage reduction (other than DR/epic) or one type of energy resistance until the beginning of your next turn.

++++ Mythic Minor Magic
You gain Mythic Minor Magic as a bonus mythic feat.

++++ Mythic Spell Scaling
You gain Mythic Spell Scaling as a bonus mythic feat.

++++ Planar Scholar (Ex)
You have mastered the mysteries of planar codes, symbols, and portals that are inscrutable to most. Knowledge (planes) is always a class skill for you, and you gain a bonus on (Knowledge) planes checks equal to one-half your mythic tier. If you spend one use of your mythic power, for the next 24 hours you become sensitive to the presence of planar portals within 30 feet, and you can note their exact location even if hidden or deactivated if you pass within 5 feet. If you cast an augury, contact other plane, or divination to gain information about entering another plane, you may subtract your mythic tier from the percentile roll to determine a successful divination. In addition, if you cast plane shift, you may subtract your mythic tier from the percentile roll (before multiplying by 5) to determine how many miles away you appear from your intended destination.

In addition, you can decipher the subtle symbology of portals known as the Portal Code, which can be left intentionally to mark portals but which also forms natural patterns that reflect the portal’s nature. Deciphering the true meaning of these planar symbols (and detecting forgeries or misleading symbols) requires a DC 20 Knowledge (planes) check and a DC 20 Linguistics check. If both checks fail, the code is indecipherable.

If either check succeeds, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on any ability checks, skill checks, caster level checks, or saving throws that must be made within the next minute as part of entering the entering or the plane to which the portal connects. This bonus does not apply against other creatures or effects created by other creatures. If both checks succeed, this bonus is equal to the higher of the two skill check results divided by 10 (rounding down, minimum +2). If you enter the plane to which the symbols refer, as long as you remain on that plane you can also apply this bonus on Survival skill checks and can determine the direction back to your point of entry of that plane as a standard action with a DC 20 Survival check.

++++ Versatile Skill Mastery (Ex)
You can select a number of skills equal to your mythic tier. You can now take 10 in these skills even when rushed or threatened, as if you had the skill mastery advanced rogue talent. If you have that advanced rogue talent, these skills are in addition to those you are normally allowed. In addition, you can spend one use of mythic power and one hour of practice to permanently exchange a skill in which you have chosen skill mastery, either through the rogue talent or this path ability, for a different skill.

If you are at least 3rd mythic tier, you can exchange a skill by practicing for 1 minute rather than one hour. If you are at least 6th mythic tier, you can exchange a skill by practicing for 1 full round, or as an immediate action by spending two uses of your mythic power.

----

++ ##000000|3rd-Tier Abilities##

++++ Bon Vivant (Ex)
Your fame brings with it a taste for the finer things in life, and you always seem to be invited to the best parties or have people offer to take care of your expenses. You enjoy the benefits of extravagant living expenses at no cost to you. In addition, since people love telling you rumors and gossip, you gain a bonus equal to one-half your mythic tier on Knowledge (local) and Knowledge (nobility) checks, as well as Diplomacy checks made to gather information.

++++ Contingency Plan (Sp)
By spending one use of your mythic power, you can use contingency as a spell-like ability, treating your mythic tier as your caster level. The companion spell for your contingency can be a spell you cast or a spell from a scroll or other spell-completion item. If you expend two uses of your mythic power, you treat your character level plus your mythic tier as your caster level for the contingency spell. If you are at least 6th mythic tier, you can expend one additional use of your mythic power to cast mythic contingency, as well as spending additional uses of mythic power to augment the effect of your mythic contingency.

++++ Eternal Youth (Ex/Su)
You look youthful and ignore aging penalties to Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution for being middle-aged, as if using the lesser age resistance^^UM^^ spell. While you do not suffer the penalties for aging, you do continue to age and can eventually die of old age. At 6th tier and above, you ignore penalties for middle age and old age, as if using the age resistance^^UM^^ spell. At 9th tier, when you gain the immortal base mythic ability, you ignore penalties from venerable age as if using the greater age resistance^^UM^^ spell. You cease aging, and gain immunity to effects that cause unnatural aging, such as the curse of the ages, and cannot die of old age. This effect is not magical and cannot be dispelled or suppressed.

In addition, as a full-round action you can spend one use of your mythic power to change your appearance to match any age you wish. Your appearance is still your own; only your apparent age is changed. This change in your appearance is permanent until you spend another use of your mythic power to adopt a different apparent age. This is a supernatural polymorph effect that is suppressed whenever you use another polymorph effect.

++++ Planar Savant (Sp)
When you travel to another plane that is not your home plane, you gain the benefits of endure elements and one-half your mythic tier on saving throws against effects that would banish, dismiss, or otherwise involuntarily transport you off that plane.

While on planes other than your own, you can use know direction at will, except that instead of learning the direction of north you learns the direction to the portal through which you entered the plane (or your point of entry, if you arrived via plane shift or a similar effect). In addition, when you are preparing to enter a new plane of existence, whether through an existing portal or by some other means, you can spend one use of your mythic power to perform an augury or two uses of your mythic power to perform a divination; either divination must be related to your entry to that plane.

At 6th tier and above, if you are within 30 feet of a portal to another plane, you may spend two uses of your mythic power to use contact other plane, though the plane you contact must be the one to which the portal leads. You may also spend three uses of your mythic power to use find the path to a location on that plane.

These spell-like abilities have a caster level equal to your mythic tier.

----

++ ##000000|6th-Tier Abilities##

++++ Companion Mythic Ability (Su)
You can awaken the mythic nature within your animal companion, cohort, eidolon, familiar, or bonded mount. It is considered a mythic creature and gains the following abilities based on your mythic tier:
||~ Tier ||~ Mythic Ability ||
|| 6th || hard to kill base mythic ability || 
|| 7th || a mythic feat or any one mythic monster special ability that a mythic or advanced mythic creature of its type possesses || 
|| 8th || recuperation base mythic ability || 
|| 9th || a mythic feat or any one mythic monster special ability that a mythic or advanced mythic creature of its type possesses || 
|| 10th || mythic saving throws base mythic ability ||

Your companion gains a number of uses of mythic power equal to one-half your mythic tier, and it may use this mythic power to use a mythic surge (adding 1d6 to a die roll) or to use any of the above abilities.

++++ I Wish (Sp)
You can use limited wish as a spell-like ability by expending five uses of your mythic power. You may expend additional uses of mythic power to use mythic limited wish or its augmented version, as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures.

This ability can be taken again at 9th or 10th tier, allowing you to expend 20 uses of mythic power to use wish (or miracle, at the GM’s option), as a spell-like ability. Granting a wish causes you to gain a permanent negative level, which supersede normal immunity to negative levels and can even harm non-living creatures, and which cannot be removed for at least 1 week. You can reduce the cost in mythic power to 10 uses, though in this case you gain two negative levels as above. You may expend additional uses of mythic power to use mythic wish or its augmented version, as described in Pathfinder Roleplaying Game Mythic Adventures. Granting a mythic wish causes a permanent reduction by 1 of your daily uses of mythic power. This reduction in mythic power can be repaired only by mythic miracle or mythic wish.

++++ Ravaging Time (Su)
When a creature within 60 feet of you uses time stop, you can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action (or two uses of mythic power as a free action) to join the creature in its time stop. You and that creature can interact with each other normally during the time stop, even as other creatures remain frozen in time relative to you. You must expend one additional use of mythic power as a swift action (or two uses as a free action) each round of the time stop at the beginning of your turn or you slip out of the time stop and become frozen in time. You cannot re-enter the time stop if you leave it. While in the time stop, you can expend one use of mythic power as a move action to attempt to dispel the time stop (using your Hit Dice plus your mythic tier as your caster level against a DC equal to 15 plus the caster level of the time stop. If your check succeeds, the time stop ends and you and the time stop caster are shunted back into the normal flow of time.

You can also enter a time stop of your own, without the need for another creature to begin a time stop near you, by expending three uses of mythic power as a standard action. You can maintain the time stop for a number of rounds equal to one-half your mythic tier by expending three additional uses of mythic power as a free action at the beginning of your turn during each round of apparent time.

When you are acting in a time stop, you can expend additional mythic power to affect a creature that is frozen in time. The target is considered helpless against your attack, but is not considered a willing target for the purpose of saving throws. You must expend one use of mythic power to allow a standard action you take while time stopped to affect a non-mythic creature whose CR is lower than your mythic tier, or two uses if the target is a mythic creature. If you create an effect that affects multiple targets, you must spend this mythic power for each target you wish to affect. If the creature’s CR equals or exceeds your CR, the cost is doubled. You cannot affect a creature whose CR is twice your mythic tier or greater.

++++ Spectacular Death (Ex)
If you are killed or permanently incapacitated (including being petrified, disintegrated, or subject to a spell like binding, imprisonment, temporal stasis, or trap the soul ), you may expend all of your remaining points of mythic power to fuel a final rampage before succumbing. This rampage occurs immediately, regardless of normal initiative order.

Expending one use of your mythic power allows you to take a move action or a 5-foot step, two points allows an immediate or swift action, three points allows a standard action, four points allows a full-round action (this may include a 5-foot step, which does not increase the cost of taking additional 5-foot steps that are made as separate actions), and five points allows an action that normally requires one round to complete. This is in addition to any mythic point cost associated with the actions you take.

You can take more than one of each type of action during your spectacular death; however, each time you take an action of the same type as an action you have already taken, its cost increases by one point for each such action after the first. Hence, your first move action (or 5-foot step) costs one point of mythic power, your second costs two, your third three, and so on. You can take attacks of opportunity during your spectacular death without spending uses of your mythic power. When you run out of uses of your mythic power or do not have enough uses of mythic power to trigger another action, this ability ends. Any leftover uses of mythic power are wasted.

After using this ability, you die (or are disintegrated, petrified, or otherwise permanently imprisoned or incapacitated, as appropriate to the effect that triggered this ability), even if you take an action that would normally negate the effect that triggered your spectacular death. You may not use or be affected by conjuration (teleportation) effects while using this ability.

You may use this ability even if you are helpless or otherwise unable to take actions before being killed or permanently incapacitated, such as being asleep or paralyzed, though you must first spend one use of your mythic power if the effect that left you helpless or unable to take actions was a non-mythic effect and 2 points if it was a mythic effect.
