title:Vigilante Talents
parent:start
[[toc]]

The following talents are available to all spherecasting vigilantes.

**Mutations:** Vigilante talents labeled as mutations are supernatural abilities that do not provoke attacks of opportunity. Unless otherwise noted, activating a mutation is a standard action.

Many mutations act as one or more sphere effects, and can be augmented by magic talents that could normally be applied to those effects (for example, the light daggers mutation can be augmented by Destruction talents with the (blast type) descriptor). However, mutations are not sphere effects, and are not augmented by staves (unless those staves grant magic talents that augment the mutation).

A vigilante uses their class level as their caster level and their MSB for all purposes related to their mutations. Most mutations allow the vigilante to gain a selection of magic talents, either through vigilante talents or the Extra Magic Talent feat, as if he possessed one or more base spheres.

Only vigilantes with the enigma specialty or possessed archetype may select mutation talents.

----

+ New Vigilante Specialization

++++ Enigma

Where the avenger uses enhanced martial arts techniques and the stalker leverages the element of surprise, the enigma draws forth innate supernatural power and bends it to her will. The enigma is considered a Mid- Caster using Charisma as her casting stat modifier, and gains a spell pool equal to her level + her Charisma modifier. Unlike most casters, enigmas do not gain magic talents for leveling up in the vigilante class. An enigma whose first vigilante level is also their first level in a spherecasting class may forego the two magical talents normally gained for one bonus vigilante talent listed as a [Mutation].

----

+ New Vigilante Talents

++++ Alchemical Explosions
The vigilante may choose an alchemist discovery that modifies bombs, using his vigilante level as his alchemist level to determine prerequisites.

This talent may be taken multiple times. A vigilante must have the bombardier or bomb class feature to take this talent.

++++ Bestial Form (Mutation)
While in his vigilante form, the vigilante gains a number of traits from the Alteration sphere equal to 1 +1 per 5 class levels. These traits may be any granted by the base Alteration sphere or from any Alteration talent the vigilante possesses, but the traits granted cannot be changed; once the vigilante has chosen a trait for his bestial form, he gains that trait every time he assumes his vigilante identity (if the vigilante wants to change which traits he gains, the change is subject to GM approval, as changing one’s bestial nature is often a story event in and of itself). Bestial form counts as the shapeshift ability and does not stack with other applications of that ability or other polymorph effects.

In addition, whenever a critical hit is scored on the vigilante while in his bestial form, he gains fast healing 1 for a number of rounds equal to his class level. A vigilante of at least 5th level may spend a spell point as a swift with the restore ability from the Life sphere.

The vigilante may take any Alteration talents that grant traits, and Life talents that augment restore.

++++ Cloak of Despair (Mutation)
The vigilante gains a swirling shroud of hungry darkness that constantly surrounds him, lowering the light level within 10 ft. of him by 1 step. As a standard action, the vigilante may teleport himself and up to a heavy load to any location of dim or darker light within Close range (25 ft. + 5 ft. per class level) to which he has line of effect. The vigilante may use this ability on another creature, but they are entitled to a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 class level + Charisma modifier) to resist the effect. The cloak of despair counts as the teleport ability from the Warp sphere and the darkness ability from the Dark sphere and may be modified by talents with the (darkness) descriptor or talents which modify the teleport ability.

The vigilante may take any (darknesss) Dark talent, or Warp talent that alters teleport. The vigilante may take Distant Teleport twice; the first time to allow them to spend a spell point to increase their teleport range to Medium range, and the second to allow them to spend a spell point to increase their teleport range to Long range. [Darkness] talents affect creatures other than the vigilante who have been teleported for 1 round, or creatures adjacent to the vigilante for as long as they remain adjacent plus 1 round thereafter.

++++ Cloak of Midnight (Mutation)
The vigilante may take talents with the [meld] descriptor which function as mutations, though he may only target himself with these abilities. For the purpose of these talents, the area of dimmed light created by his cloak of despair is always considered an area of darkness. The vigilante may select one talent with the [meld] descriptor as a bonus talent.

The vigilante must have the cloak of despair mutation to select this talent.

++++ Compel the Soul (Mutation)
When a creature damaged by the vigilante’s deathly bonds ability dies within 3 rounds, the vigilante may spend a spell point as a standard action to raise the creature as a zombie servitor for 1 minute per caster level. The creature gains the zombie template and obeys the vigilante’s commands, though only simple commands such as “go”, “stay”, “attack”, or “guard” are understandable. The vigilante can only have one zombie animated in this way at a time, and the zombie cannot possess more HD than the vigilante’s class level. Creation of a new zombie causes any existing zombie to immediately fall inert.

The vigilante must have the deathly bonds mutation and must have chosen negative energy with that ability to take this talent.

++++ Daemonic Influence (Mutation)
The vigilante gains detect good as a spell-like ability. At 4th level, he gains dread bolt as a spell-like ability. At 8th level, he gains unholy blight as a spell-like ability. At 12th level, the vigilante gains dispel good as a spell like ability. At 16th level, he gains blasphemy as a spell-like ability. At 20th level, the vigilante gains unholy aura as a spell-like ability. To activate any of these abilities, the vigilante must spend 1 point from his spell pool. This increases to 2 points for abilities gained at 8th or 12th, and 3 points for abilities gained at 16th or 20th level. The vigilante uses his class level as his caster level for these spell-like abilities.

Only a possessed vigilante who has selected aligned outsider (evil) for their vigilante form may take this talent.

++++ Dagger Burst (Mutation)
The vigilante may spend a spell point to make a single attack with his light daggers against each enemy within 30 ft. as a full round action. The vigilante makes one attack roll and compares the result against each targeted enemy when determining whether this attack hits. This deals regular light dagger damage, not the reduced amount from the rapid daggers talent.

The vigilante must be at least 10th level and possess the light daggers mutation and rapid daggers talent to select this talent.

++++ Deathly Bonds (Mutation)
The vigilante may infuse their touch and melee attacks with supernatural energy, allowing them to harm and control their foes. When the vigilante selects this mutation, he chooses either fire or negative energy; he may spend a swift action to cause his melee attacks to deal 1d6 damage of this type for 1 round, and he may make a melee touch attack in place of a weapon attack to deliver this damage. The vigilante is considered armed while using this mutation. If the vigilante chooses negative energy, his attacks do not heal undead.

In addition, the vigilante may spend a spell point when activating this ability to cause any target damaged by it to be unable to speak deliberate or intentional lies for a number of rounds equal to his Charisma modifier unless they succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 class level + Charisma modifier). This ability counts as the ghost strike ability from the Death sphere, and the vigilante may take any Death sphere talents with the (ghost strike) modifier. Only one (ghost strike) talent may be applied in a single round, and the vigilante must pay any spell point cost required by that talent.

++++ Deep Breathing (Mutation)
As a full-round action, you may using the firebreather mutation to deal 1d6 damage per level without spending a spell point. When used in this manner, double the size of the area of effect. You must possess the firebreather mutation before you may select this talent.

++++ Devouring Cloak (Mutation)
When the vigilante uses his cloak of despair to successfully transport another creature, he may choose to have that creature take damage equal to the vigilante’s class level, healing the vigilante of that same amount. Any excess healing from this ability is applied as temporary hit points that last for 1 minute per caster level.

The vigilante must have the cloak of despair mutation to select this talent.

++++ Empyrean Inheritance (Mutation)
The vigilante gains detect evil as a spell-like ability. At 4th level, he gains spear of purity as a spell-like ability. At 8th level, he gains holy smite as a spell-like ability. At 12th level, the vigilante gains dispel evil. At 16th level, he gains holy word as a spell-like ability. At 20th level, the vigilante gains holy aura as a spell-like ability. To activate any of these abilities, the vigilante must spend 1 point from his spell pool. This increases to 2 points for abilities gained at 8th or 12th, and 3 points for abilities gained at 16th or 20th level. The vigilante uses his class level as his caster level for these spell-like abilities.

Only a possessed vigilante who has selected aligned outsider (good) for their vigilante form may take this talent.

++++ Enhanced Healing (Mutation)
The fast healing granted by the bestial form mutation increases by 1. In addition, the vigilante may choose to activate this fast healing as a swift action by spending 1 spell point, without needing to be subject to a critical hit.

This talent may be selected multiple times, increasing the fast healing granted by 1 each time it is taken, to a maximum of fast healing 5.

The vigilante must have the bestial form mutation to select this talent.

++++ Familiar
The vigilante gains a familiar, using her vigilante level as his effective wizard level. The familiar also has a social identity as a seemingly normal animal, though vigilantes with outlandish familiars might still need to hide them.

++++ Firebreather (Mutation)
The vigilante gains a breath weapon he may activate at will as a standard action, which deals 1d6 damage in a 15 foot cone (Reflex half, DC 10 + 1/2 class level + Charisma modifier). The damage increases by 1d6 and the size of the cone increases by 5 ft. for every 2 class levels the vigilante possesses. The vigilante may spend a spell point to increase the damage of this effect to 1d6 per level.

Upon gaining this mutation, the vigilante may select one (blast type) talent or the Crafted Blast talent from the Destruction sphere to augment the damage, determine the damage type, and add effects of their breath weapon. Crafted Blast allows the vigilante to make attacks ‘unaltered by a (blast type) talent’. This effect can be augmented by any (blast type) Destruction sphere talents the vigilante knows as though it were a destructive blast. The vigilante may gain (blast type) Destruction talents as well Crafted Blast.

++++ Fires of Perdition (Mutation)
When a vigilante successfully uses their deathly bonds ability to prevent a target from lying, any attempt by the target to speak, write, or otherwise intentionally convey a lie for the next 24 hours results in the target immediately taking an amount of fire damage equal to 1d6 per class level the vigilante possesses (minimum 1d6).

The vigilante must have the deathly bonds mutation and must have chosen fire with that ability to take this talent.

++++ Hidden Magic
Whenever the vigilante uses any sphere ability while in his social identity, he can hide its effects. Whenever he casts defensively, other creatures must make a Perception check against a DC equal to the vigilante’s concentration check to even notice the casting. Failure to do so prevents any reactions to his casting from taking place. This does not make any touch attacks associated with the spherecasting undetectable, however.

++++ Hologram (requires Illusion sphere)
The vigilante may create an illusion of his other self (social or vigilante) using his Illusion ability. The illusion has sound, odor, and tactile components, and the vigilante may control the illusion as if it were his actual self, even speaking through it, manipulating objects up to 25 pounds, and using his Bluff, Diplomacy, and Intimidate skills through it. He can not fight through it however, and is unable to make attack rolls, or use magical abilities of any kind. In addition, any damage or any effect that causes a condition or requires a saving throw dispels the illusion. An illusion of the vigilante persona possesses the same appearance abilities the vigilante does.

++++ Hulking Form (Mutation)
When the vigilante assumes his vigilante identity, his size increases by one category (Small to Medium, Medium to Large). This does not stack with size increases from other sources. The vigilante does not gain any modifications to his physical ability scores as a result of this change, but he does gain a +2 enhancement bonus to his Strength, which increases by +2 at 6th level and every 6 levels thereafter.

During the process of assuming his vigilante identity (or as a swift action taken while in his vigilante identity), the vigilante may activate any Enhancement talents he possesses that target creatures (such as the Harden, Lighten, or Physical Enhancement talents), but may only target himself. The vigilante must spend 1 spell point per enhancement he gains through this process. These enhancements last 1 minute per caster level.

The vigilante may gain (enhance) Enhancement talents that may affect creatures. The vigilante may also gain vigilante talents normally restricted to the brute vigilante archetype, but can only use these talents while in his vigilante identity.

++++ Increased Magical Capacity
The vigilante gains the Extra Magic Talent feat as a bonus feat and increases his effective caster level by 1. This talent may be taken once, +1 at 6th level and every 4 levels thereafter. The vigilante must possess the casting class feature, the Basic Magic Training feat, or the Enigma specialization or Possessed archetype to select this talent.

++++ Inevitable Empowerment (Mutation)
The vigilante gains detect chaos as a spell-like ability. At 4th level, he gains arrow of law as a spell-like ability. At 8th level, he gains orders wrath as a spell-like ability. At 12th level, the vigilante gains dispel chaos as a spell-like ability. At 16th level, he gains dictum as a spell-like ability. At 20th level, the vigilante gains shield of law as a spell-like ability. To activate any of these abilities, the vigilante must spend 1 point from his spell pool. This increases to 2 points for abilities gained at 8th or 12th, and 3 points for abilities gained at 16th or 20th level. The vigilante uses his class level as his caster level for these spell-like abilities.

Only a possessed vigilante who has selected aligned outsider (lawful) for their vigilante form may take this talent.

++++ Light Daggers (Mutation)
The vigilante gains the ability to launch a glowing dagger of magical energy at an enemy within Close range (25 ft. + 5 ft. per class level). As a standard action, you may make a ranged attack that deals 1d4 per class level + Charisma modifier piercing damage. Creatures with light sensitivity or light blindness who are struck by this ability are dazzled for 1 round. By spending one spell point when activating this ability, you can cause the target to shed bright light for 1 minute as though targeted by a glow effect. Light daggers count as the destructive blast ability from the Destruction sphere and the glow ability from the Light sphere, and may be modified by talents with the (light) or (blast type) descriptors.

++++ Monstrous Guise (requires Alteration sphere)
The vigilante has tapped into something primal in his costumed identity, giving him a powerful connection to the natural world. While in his vigilante guise, the vigilante may use his class level as his caster level for all Alteration effects that are limited to himself. In addition, he may also use the wild empathy ability as a druid of equal level while in this guise.

++++ Ocular Blast (Mutation)
The vigilante gains the ability to fire a blast of energy from his eyes as a standard action. This blast is a ranged touch attack with a range of Close (25 ft. + 5 ft. per 2 levels), and deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 2 levels. The vigilante may spend a spell point to increase this damage to 1d6 per level. Any creature struck by the ocular blast is also subject to a bull rush combat maneuver at range, using the vigilante’s class level + Charisma modifier as their BAB. This does not provoke an attack of opportunity, and the vigilante needn’t move with the target.

This effect can be augmented by any (blast shape) Destruction sphere talents the vigilante knows, the Crafted Blast and the Extended Range talents, as though it were a destructive blast. The vigilante may gain (blast shape) magic talents or the Extended Range talent.

++++ Ocular Push (Mutation)
As a full-round action, you may fire your ocular blast and make a trip combat maneuver instead of a bull rush combat maneuver if the attack is successful. For whichever combat maneuver is used, you gain a +8 bonus to your effective CMB. You must possess the ocular blast talent to gain this talent.

++++ Pernicious Projectiles
The vigilante gains Point-Blank Shot as a bonus feat, and if he already has the Point-Blank Shot feat, he can immediately swap it for another feat for which he qualified at the level he chose Point-Blank Shot. When making a ranged attack against an enemy within 15 ft. that uses the vigilante’s Strength bonus on damage rolls (and not his Dexterity), he also adds half his vigilante level on damage rolls (minimum +1, maximum +5).

++++ Protean Touched (Mutation)
The vigilante gains detect law as a spell-like ability. At 4th level, he gains shard of chaos as a spell-like ability. At 8th level, he gains chaos hammer as a spell-like ability. At 12th level, the vigilante gains dispel law as a spell-like ability. At 16th level, he gains word of chaos as a spell-like ability. At 20th level, the vigilante gains cloak of chaos as a spell-like ability. To activate any of these abilities, the vigilante must spend 1 point from his spell pool. This increases to 2 points for abilities gained at 8th or 12th, and 3 points for abilities gained at 16th or 20th level. The vigilante uses his class level as his caster level for these spell-like abilities.

Only a possessed vigilante who has selected aligned outsider (chaotic) for their vigilante form may take this talent.

++++ Rapid Daggers (Mutation)
As a full attack action, the vigilante may launch a number of daggers with his light daggers ability equal to the number of attacks his base attack bonus and any other effects which would grant extra attacks on a full attack (such as the Rapid Shot feat or haste) would normally allow him to make, but the damage of his light daggers is reduced to 1d4 per 2 class levels + Charisma modifier.

The vigilante must have the light daggers mutation to select this talent.

++++ Speedster (Mutation)
The vigilante may spend a swift action to accelerate for 1 round, allowing him to take 1 additional attack at his full base attack bonus as part of a full attack, or move 1/2 his base land speed. This counts as the haste function of the alter time ability from the Time sphere, and allows the vigilante to select talents with the (time) descriptor or the Improved Haste talent, though the vigilante may only target himself with these abilities.

++++ Speedster’s Dash (Mutation)
The vigilante gains the Run feat. When activating the speedster mutation, the vigilante may spend a spell point to activate either of the following options: the vigilante gains a +2 enhancement bonus to his Dexterity score +2 per 6 caster levels, or the vigilante gains an enhancement bonus to their base land speed equal to their normal base land speed. The vigilante may activate both of these effects as part of the same action, but must pay the spell point cost for each individually. These additional effects last for 1 round.

The vigilante must have the speedster mutation to select this talent.

++++ Storm Dancer (Mutation)
The vigilante may now affect precipitation levels and effects with their wind-rider mutation, rather than only wind. In addition, while in areas of Strong or stronger precipitation, the vigilante may call down a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-long, vertical bolt of lightning that deals 3d6 points of electricity damage as a standard action. The bolt of lightning flashes down in a vertical stroke at whatever target point the vigilante chooses within Medium range (100 ft. + 10 ft. per level) measured from your position at the time). Any creature in the target square or in the path of the bolt is affected. The vigilante may call down 1 additional bolt when using this ability at 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, directing the bolts to the same location or multiple locations within the effect’s range.

The vigilante must have the wind-rider mutation to select this talent.

++++ Temporal Shifting (Su)
You are surrounded by a weak field of temporal magic that allows you to extend or retract time slightly. You reduce the time to perform Craft, Diplomacy, Intimidate, or Profession skill checks that would normally take at least 1 minute by 50%. When engaged in a conversation or similar social interaction that lasts for at least 1 minute, you may choose to have the conversation or interaction actually last twice as long in real time, though everyone participating in the conversation will believe that time has passed at the perceived rate until they are presented with evidence to the contrary (such as the sun having moved farther through the sky than it reasonably should have for the perceived amount of time).

++++ There is Only The Night (Ex)
The vigilante gains the ability to completely erase their social identity. Over the course of 24 hours, the vigilante may arrange a series of events culminating in the apparent death of his social identity. During this time, the vigilante also engages in a series of mental exercises that allow him to completely seal away all the memories and thoughts tied to that social identity. Once this process is complete, the vigilante is now completely separate from his social identity; any enemies the vigilante may have made while in his social identity believe him dead, any magical attempts to discover his old identity’s location fail, and any Knowledge or gather information checks always lead the pursuer to believe the vigilante is dead. For one week, the vigilante’s only identity is his vigilante identity, after which time he may establish a new social identity completely unconnected to the first, including the option to select a new alignment. Once the vigilante has established a new social identity, they may choose to retrain this talent for another vigilante talent they qualified for at the level they gained it.

++++ Wind-Rider (Mutation)
The vigilante gains the ability to manipulate the winds around them, increasing or decreasing their severity and creating related effects. This works like, and counts as, the control weather ability from the Weather sphere and may be augmented by talents from that sphere, but may only be used to affect wind conditions; it has no effect on cold, heat, or precipitation levels.

In addition, in conditions of Strong or more severe wind, the vigilante may spend a spell point to gain a fly speed of 30 ft. with perfect maneuverability for 1 hour per caster level, or until the winds subside below Strong, whichever comes first. For each category of severity beyond Strong the local wind conditions reach, the fly speed granted by this ability increases by 10 ft. and the maneuverability decreases by 1 step.

----

+ New Social Talents

++++ Copycat (Ex)
The vigilante can grant a trusted ally tasked with appearing in the vigilante’s vigilante identity at a particular time or place a +20 bonus to their Disguise check to appear as the vigilante. This ally is typically a 1st level expert, must be given access to the vigilante’s costume, and is indistinguishable from the vigilante in that guise. The ally can make appearances as the vigilante directs, and uses the vigilante’s bonus to Intimidate or Diplomacy checks when influencing a crowd. The ally can even appear next to the vigilante in his social identity. This does not grant the ally access to the vigilante’s powers, though, and the ally will avoid combat at all costs and will flee if threatened.

The vigilante must have the loyal aid social talent to select this talent.

++++ Military Discount (Ex)
The vigilante’s social identity is known and respected for his service to his community, and is offered special discounts in his area of renown. Whenever he buys an item in his area of renown that costs 500 gp or less, he can buy it at 90% of the market price, rather than the full price. If he has the great renown social talent, the gp limit increases to 2,000 gp, and if he possesses the incredible renown social talent, the gp limit increases to 8,000 gp. If the vigilante also has the celebrity discount social talent, he may purchase items at 80% of the market price and increases the price limits for items that benefit from this talent by 20%.

A vigilante must have the renown social talent and war form class feature to select this talent.

++++ Military Rank (Ex)
The vigilante’s service to his community has been rewarded with a position of military authority. While in his area of renown, the vigilante may call upon the services of three 1st level fighters and two 1st level experts free of charge. At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, the number and level of each type of character whose services he can call on increases by 1.

The vigilante must be at least 3rd level and have the war form class feature to select this talent.

++++ Safe Berth (Ex)
The vigilante may designate a ship he owns as his safe house, and always treats his ship as being in his area of renown.

The vigilante must have the safe house social talent to select this talent.

++++ Sever Ties (Ex)
The vigilante gains the ability to completely erase their vigilante identity. Over the course of 24 hours, the vigilante may arrange a series of events culminating in the apparent death of his vigilante identity. During this time, the vigilante also engages in a series of mental exercises that allow him to completely seal away all the memories and thoughts tied to that vigilante identity. Once this process is complete, the vigilante is now completely separate from his vigilante identity; any enemies the vigilante may have made while in his vigilante identity believe him dead, any magical attempts to discover his old identity’s location fail, and any Knowledge or gather information checks always lead the pursuer to believe the vigilante is dead. For one week, the vigilante’s only identity is his social identity, after which time he may establish a new vigilante identity completely unconnected to the first, including the option to select a new alignment. Once the vigilante has established a new vigilante identity, they may choose to retrain this talent for another social talent they qualified for at the level they gained it.

----

[[include sop-template]]
